
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES 
FOR 
CONSULTANCY SERVICES 
 
 
 
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY 
(HARYANA) - INDIA 
September, 2022 
 
 
 

 
 
 

1. About the University 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University is a State university established under Act 25 
of 2016. The objective to establish the Skill University is to facilitate and promote 
skill, entrepreneurship development, skill based education and research in the 
emerging areas of manufacturing, information technology, textile, design, 
logistics and transportation, automation, agriculture, maintenance, etc. and to 
raise skill level in various fields related to these areas. The campus of the University 
is being set-up at Dudhola village in Palwal district. The university is classified in 
4 Faculties i.e. Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Skill Faculty of 
Management Studies & Research, Skill Faculty of Humanities & Applied Sciences 
and Skill Faculty of Agriculture for coordinated teaching in particular and effective 
governance in general. The University at present offers regular programmes on 
Campus including D. Voc. B.Voc, B.Tech, M.Voc., MBA, Post Graduate Diploma, 
Skill Diploma, and Skill Certificate programmes. These programmes stand 
approved by the Skill Council and Executive Council of University. The University 
is recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) under Section 2(f) for 
recognition of degrees. 
2. Definitions 
2.1 Chairperson: Chairperson of Skill Department of University 
2.2 Competent Authority: Vice Chancellor of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
2.3 Dean: Dean of respective Skill Faculty of University 
2.4 Dean (RC): Dean of Research and Consultancy 
2.5 Department: Skill Department of University 
2.6 Faculty: Skill Faculty of University 
2.7 Employee: (Teaching and Non-teaching staff of the University) 
2.8 Principal Consultant: Any faculty member of Departments/Faculty, and other 
Professionally/Technically well qualified regular employees of Shri Vishwakarma 
Skill University 
2.9 Co-Principal Consultant: Any faculty member of Departments/Faculty, and other 
Professionally/Technically well qualified regular/contractual employees of Shri 

Vishwakarma Skill University. 
2.10 University – University means Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
2.11 Teaching staff – All Assistant professors, Associate professors and Professors 
of the University 
2.12 Non-Teaching staff: All other employees apart from teaching staff, who 
are professionally/technically well qualified employees of Shri Vishwakarma Skill 
University 
 
 
3. General 
 
3.1 The University encourages academic staff and other employees to undertake 
the consultancy assignments. 
 
3.2 Consultancy Services may be offered to Public and Private sector/Corporate, 
Industries, Service Sector, Govt. Departments, Non-Profit Institutions, Ministries 
and other National and International agencies/organizations in the area of 
expertise available in the University. 
 
3.3 No ceiling limit has been prescribed for undertaking consultancy projects 
/assignments to be undertaken by the University/Individuals. 
 
3.4 University will have right to engage consulting agencies/Industries/Govt. 
Organizations/ and educational institutions for the consulting projects. For 
execution of such type of consultancy, terms & conditions will be decided by SVSU 
and associated organization. Consultancy Service Committee (CSC) dully approved 
by Competent Authority and Chaired by Dean (RC) will represent SVSU. 
 
3.5 If the concerned department initiates any consulting work with Industry for 
Programme designing, execution and training, the department will facilitate for  
signing the MoU between the University and other stake holders. 
 
3.6 The services offered shall be along the lines of 'Professional Services' and will 
hence carry with them obligations and ethical requirements associated with such 
services as indicated in the Standard Terms and Conditions (Annexure-I). 
 
3.7 The services of permanent/contractual /outsourced employees/ students of 
the University will be utilized for the execution of the consultancy projects provided 
it does not affect at any cost their primary functions and responsibilities to the 
University. 
 
3.8 Each consultancy assignment/project will have Principal Consultant. The 
Principal Consultant must ensure, before taking consultancy assignment, that 
machines/equipment to be used in the project are in proper working condition. 
Any equipment owned by the University and to be used outside the university, in 

case of damage to the equipment, while use and transportation, Principal 
Consultant shall be responsible for the damages and will pay for the same to the 
University. 
 
3.9 Consultant(s) shall disclose in writing at the time of submission of consultancy 
project proposal, the existence of any relationship between him / her and the client 
 
3.10 The Principal Consultant(s) will have the right to publish the work carried out 
by him/her out of the consultancy work after taking prior permission of the client. 
 
3.11  Normally the agreed charges of the consultancy project are to be deposited 
by the client, in full, before the consultancy work commences. In cases where the 
partial charges are to be deposited in advance, the payment schedule shall be 
mentioned in the project proposal and shall be approved by competent authority 
as recommended by Consultancy Service Committee. The full payment of the total 
contracted amount shall be released by client within one month of completion of 
consultancy project. 
 
3.12 In case of any accident or loss to the human resource during the consultancy 
work, the compensation as per policy of the University shall be applicable. 
 
3.13  A consultancy project is normally expected to be closed soon after the date 
of completion as stipulated in the original project proposal, unless an extension has 
been sought and granted. The completion certificate should be taken from the client 
on his letterhead by the Principal Consultant. 
 
3.14 Consultant(s) or the clients cannot use the University name or the fact that 
they are affiliated with the University, in a manner that (i) suggests that the 
University approves or disapproves of a product or service provided by a profit, 
non-profit or governmental entity or (ii) suggests that the University has 
performed research or issued research findings when it has not done so, or 
misleadingly states the results of University research for consultancy or (iii) may 
be interpreted to communicate the official position of the University on any issue 
of public interest. 
 
3.15 In case of any disagreement, conflict and/or dispute between the client and 
University / University and consultant(s) / Consultant(s) and the client(s) or any 
other party involved directly or indirectly at any stage of a Consultancy project will 
be resolved in consultation with Dean (RC) and the Vice- Chancellor to ensure an 
expeditious removal of bottlenecks and smooth functioning of the project. 

4.  Consultancy Project Categories 
 
Category I: Consultancy services which do not require university laboratory facility 
such as designs, proof checking, vetting of third-party designs, preparation of 
project reports, third party site visits, preparation of audit reports/skill-based study 
reports, and other similar assignments. 
 
Category II: Consultancy services include such assignment that require institute 
hardware/software 
facilities 
(Laboratory 
equipment/software) 
and 
similar 
assignments. 
 
University reserves the right to add categories for providing consultancy services 
 
5.  Principal Consultant and Co-Principal Consultant 
 
5.1 There shall be a Principal Consultant for each consultancy project who will act 
as a team leader. There may/may not be a Co- Principal Consultant in consultancy 
project. 
 
5.2 
Any 
faculty 
member 
of 
Departments/Faculty, 
and 
other 
Professionally/Technically well qualified regular/contractual employees of Shri 
Vishwakarma Skill University may be nominated as Co-Principal Consultant. 
However, Principal Consultant will be a regular employee of the University. 
 
5.3 In addition to the academic qualifications in the relevant field, the consultant(s) 
must possess expertise and proved credentials in the area of the consultancy work. 
 
5.4 Consultancy projects are normally initiated by requests / enquiries from the 
Client directly to the University or by discussion between the Client and the 
Consultant(s). The enquiry directly received by the University will be forwarded to 
the concerned Dean of Faculty by Dean (RC) for nominations of Principal Consultant 
as per specified expertise, and existing commitments of the faculty members. The 
nominations thus received will be put before the Consultancy Services Committee 
for finalization of Principal Consultant. 
 
5.5 If a Faculty member and any other Professionally & Technically well qualified 
regular employee of the university is directly approached by client for consultancy 
project then, he/she will be given preference to become the Principal Consultant. 
Such requests shall be forwarded to Dean (RC) through Dean of Faculty. 
 
5.6 Notification of Principal Consultant will be issued by Dean (RC) after approval 
of Competent Authority. 
 
5.7 No regular employee of the University will be allowed to submit a fresh 
consultancy project proposal as a Principal Consultant, when his retirement time is 
lesser than the

duration of the consultancy work. However, a retiring employee may continue to 
work as Principal consultant or Co Principal Consultant with the approval of the 
competent Authority. 
 
5.8 If the Principal Consultant leaves the University or proceeds on leave or not 
available for some reason (exigency / critical illness), the Dean (RC) on the 
recommendation of the Principal Consultant (if he/she is available) will appoint a 
new Principal Consultant in consultation with the client subject to the eligibility 
criteria of the consultancy rules. The new Principal Consultant will give an 
undertaking to complete the project in the remaining time with remaining funds 
to the Dean (RC) through Head of the department /Dean of Faculty. 
 
5.9 In case the principal consultant resigns from the University, he/she has to give 
the notice of 15 days prior to his/her term to Dean (RC) through Head of 
department/Dean of Faculty. 
 
6. Project Proposal 
 
6.1 The Principal Consultant notified by Dean (RC) shall submit a detailed project 
proposal (as per the Performa at Appendix II) for the consultancy work through 
the respective Head of the department /Dean of Faculty to Dean (RC). 
 
6.2 If the total cost of Consultancy project is less than or equal to Rs. 1,00,000/, 
the Dean (RC) will approve the proposal. The proposal with cost less than Rs. 
20,000 
will not fall under the purview of this policy. 
 
6.3 For projects more than 1 lakh, the proposal shall be placed for screening before 
Consultancy Service Committee, The CSC may accept/reject/suggest to revise the 
proposal depending on its merit. The recommendations of the committee will be 
approved by the Vice-Chancellor. 
 
6.4 The office of Dean (RC) will intimate the Principal Consultant through respective 
Head of the dept. / Dean of Faculty about the final decision on project proposal. 
 
6.5 The Consultancy Services committee will consist of the following: 
 
1. Dean (RC) 
Chairman 
2. Dean of Faculty Concerned (in case of Teaching Staff) OR Registrar 
(in case of Non-Teaching Staff) 
Member 
3. Head of the dept./office concerned 
Member 
4. One faculty member to be nominated by Dean (RC) from (RC) cell 
Member 
5. A.R. / D.R. (Accounts) 
Member 
6. One Professor/Associate Professor from concerned department 
(Nominated by Concerned Dean) 
Member 

6.6 For large projects (> Rs. 10 Lakhs), the CS Committee shall review and assess 
the progress periodically (at least once in a year or twice in the total duration of the 
project) for timely completion of the projects. 
 
6.7 The Principal Consultant shall submit the progress report quarterly to the  office 
of Dean (RC). Also, he/ she shall present his/her annual progress invariably in front 
of the CSC. 
 
7. Manpower 
 
7.1 Hiring of casual staff/labour: The Principal Consultant can hire casual staff and 
or casual labour as per approved rates of the Institute/DC rate. 
 
7.2 For hiring special skilled service, the Principal consultant may decide and pay 
as per the requirement of the consultancy services. The service under this category 
will be of purely on temporary and need based. The hiring of such staff should be 
through open advertisement on university website/ local newspaper. 
 
7.3 
Use 
of 
Existing 
Staff: 
Existing 
faculty 
member 
and 
regular/contractual/outsourced staff of Laboratory/office/ministerial staff who may 
be available without affecting Department schedule/work may be considered 
subject to the requirement of the project and   availability of such staff. Such staff 
may be hired from any department as per the requirement by the Principal 
consultant. 
 
7.4 Use of Existing Students: Students registered in Diploma/Undergraduate/post 
graduate/Ph.D. programs of the University can be engaged in the consultancy 
projects. Transparency to be ensured in selection of such students by Principal 
Consultant. The principal consultant must ensure that equal opportunity is given to all 
students. The  Ph.D. and M.Tech./Master students shall be paid honorarium up to a 
maximum of Rs.6000/- and Rs.5000/- pm respectively. Diploma/Undergraduate 
students shall be paid honorarium up to a maximum of Rs 3000/-p.m. and 4000/-
pm respectively. The students studying in certificate programs can also be engaged 
and stipend paid to such students shall be paid up to a maximum of Rs 2000/-p.m.  
 
7.5 Outside Consultants: The Principal consultant with the prior approval of Vice 
Chancellor on recommendation of Dean (RC) may avail the services of individuals 
not in the Institute service, or government organization/private organizations as 
Consultants for any consultancy service. 
 
8. Travel 
 
8.1 The most expeditious and convenient mode of travel should be used to 
minimize period of absence from the Institute. All faculty members and non-faculty 
staff will be paid TA/DA as per SVSU norms. However, if there are deviations from the 
norms, prior approval of competent authority shall be mandatory for such cases.  
 
8.2 Approval for domestic travel shall be accorded by Principal Consultant; 
whereas, for travel of Principal consultant prior approval of Dean (RC) is required.  
 
8.3 The expenses incurred for carriage of an equipment in a car/suitable vehicle 
will also be covered under travel expenses. 
 

8.4 Advance for travel, if any, will be approved by the Dean (RC). 
 
8.5 Payment of charges to travel agents for Ticket purchase assistance, Visa 
assistance, Insurance etc. shall be admissible. 
 
8.6 If client has specified any specific condition(s) for travel under the project 
that shall be followed normally. 
 
8.7 Approval of the competent Authority, through Dean (RC), will be required for 
all international travels. 
 
9. Finance and Accounts 
 
9.1 A separate bank account will be maintained for the financial transactions related 
to consultancy services. All payments related to Consultancy work will be received 
by the university under separate budget head “Consultancy Services”. The funds for 
consultancy work will be operated by Dean (RC) and Accounts officer of the 
university. 
 
9.2 At the time of completion of a consultancy project, the Principal Consultant 
shall submit a copy of final report along with duly audited expenditure statement 
and completion certificate from the client in the office of Dean (RC). 
 
9.3 The norms for calculation of various percentages for distribution of the total 
money received from client will be as follows: 

Item 
Consultancy Project 
Category -I 
Category –II 
Total money 
received from client 
G 
G 
Service Tax 
L 
L 
Total Contracted 
Amount (T) 
 
T = G-L 
 
T = G-L 
Total Expenditure* (E) 
E 
E 
Remaining Amount (R) 
R = T-E 
R = T-E 
  University Share (U) 
U = 0.4R 
U = 0.6R 
Balance Amount for 
Distribution (D) 
D = R-U 
D = R-U 
Distribution of Amount D for all categories 
0.10D amount will be disbursed among Dean (RC), Dean (concerned faculty) and 
Chairperson of department, accounts officer as proposed by Dean (RC) and 
approved by competent authority. 
For Principal Consultant and Co Principal Consultants (if any): A = 0.90D. Principal 
Consultant will get 60% of 0.90D and Co Principal Consultant will get 40% of 0.90D. 
In case of more than one Co Principal Consultant, the amount (40% of 0.90D) will 
be equally disbursed. 
 
 
     9.4 In all Consultancy projects, the money to be charged from the Client ‘G’ will be  
decided by the consultancy service committee including Principal Consultant. The 
consultancy projects under category II involve levy of usage charges of physical 
infrastructure/equipment/softwares. The Principal Consultant shall quote SVSU rates 
to be charged from the client. The rates so proposed by the Principal Consultant shall 
be negotiated and finalized by the CSC including the Principal Consultant. The 
committee must ensure that a reasonable income to university is ensured through 
such projects along with the recovery of depreciation cost of infrastructure. The 
fixation of rates by the committee may also vary depending on the nature as well as 
the quantum of work involved. 
 
9.5 In case of Consultancy projects, the usage charges of technical 
infrastructure Computational facilities / Software / Hardware, etc.) and Physical 
infrastructure, etc. of the university shall form part of the University Share U. 
The usage charges cannot be more than 10% of G. 
 
9.6 Total Expenditure (E) 
The total expenditure in the consultancy work should cover the following costs related 
to the project. The taxes will be applicable as per government rules. 
i. Travel expenses in connection with the consultancy work. 
ii. Salary/payment to labour, honorarium paid, payments to staff/faculty 
member, fee to the outside experts associated with consultancy project. 
iii. Expenditures on hospitality, stationary, material, preparation of project 
reports, consumables, Contingency. 
iv. Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel. 
v. Maintenance, calibration / recalibration of equipment / testing facilities 
required for consultancy work. 
vi. Field work charges 
vii. Any other costs considered appropriate. 

 
9.7 Distribution of University Share (U) 
The University Share (U) will be distributed between Institutional Development 
Fund (IDF), Professional Development Fund (PDF) and Student Development Fund 
(SDF) as per the norms provided in the table below. The Institutional Development 
Fund (IDF) will be used for the purpose of employee welfare schemes for 
employees of SVSU and development of infrastructure/labs in the department and 
the 
University 
respectively. 
While 
utilizing 
the 
IDF 
for 
infrastructure 
development/labs, preference will be given to the departments / office concerned 
which have contributed in generating funds through consultancy work. 
Professional Development Fund (PDF) is a performance-linked fund created for the 
employees of the University with the objective of supporting their professional 
needs. However, preference will be given to those Consultant(s) who have 
contributed in generating funds through their consultancy work. This fund will be 
utilized by the employees to attend conferences, pay membership subscription to 
professional societies, and purchase software, data base, computer and computer 
peripherals, etc. 
The SDF will be used to support the students for their course fee in the 
university, who do not have any earning member in the family or do not have any 
support for their studies at SVSU. The cases of such students should be approved 
by competent authority as recommend by Dean of concerned faculty. 
 
 
Distribution of University Share (U) 
Item 
IDF 
PDF 
SDF 
Consultancy 
under all 
categories 
 
0.60U 
 
0.20U 
 
0.20U 
 
9.8 In case any legal dispute arises between the consultant(s) and the client 
such that the consultant(s) are in any way, held responsible to make good the 
losses incurred by the client, such liability will be restricted to a maximum limit 
which will be calculated as follows: 
Maximum Liability = The total contracted amount (excluding Service Tax) charged 
for the consultancy project – the expenditure / liabilities on the project or as per 
order by the competent court. It is in the interest of the consultant(s) to bring this 
fact to the notice of the clients well in advance. The expenditure / liabilities as 
determined by the University will be calculated as the expenditure / liability till such 
date on which the client inform the consultant(s) in writing to stop work on the 
project for ongoing projects, or till the end of the project for completed projects. 
The expenditure will also include the remuneration paid to the supporting staff of 
the University.  
 
9.9 The training programs to be conducted for semi-skilled/skilled manpower/ 
executive of the organizations shall fall under category of consultancy services, 
provided those are delivered beyond working hours of the university/on 
holidays/academic breaks. The university share (30% of the total cost of the 
estimated project) should be taken care while developing such program. Such 
training may be offered by any skill Faculty or the department of any skill Faculty. 

For training programs of semi-skilled/skilled manpower, the honorarium of Rs.500 
per hour will  
be paid to the employee engaged for delivery of contents. For training programs 
of managerial/executive staff, the honorarium of Rs.1500 will be paid to the SVSU 
employee engaged for delivery of contents, and the honorarium paid to external 
experts can be maximum up to Rs 5000/- per hour. The Distribution of Amount D, 
if any, in this case will be: 
(i) 
0.10D amount will be disbursed among Dean (concerned Faculty), 
Chairperson of concerned department and accounts officer equally as 
proposed by Dean (RC) and approved by competent authority. 
(ii) 
0.10D shall be disbursed among employees who are involved in content 
development as proposed by Dean of concerned Faculty and approved by 
Dean (RC). 
(iii) 
0.80D will be disbursed towards the concerned department/Faculty account 
which will be maintained separately. This department/Faculty fund will be 
utilized for the capacity building. 
The assessment and certification for training programs of semi-skilled/skilled 
manpower will be done by assessment and certification department of the 
University. The cost of such assessments shall be part of the expenditure (E) of 
project. For executive programs, the assessment and certification cost (if any) 
shall also be included in the expenditure (E) of the project.  
 
10. Purchase 
 
All purchases / procurement under consultancy projects shall be made as per norms 
prevailing in the University. 
 
11. Documentation 
 
Following documents will be maintained by the Principal Consultant through his 
team members and produced as and when required. 
 
a) Attendance Records: Attendance record of the Consultant(s), supporting staff 
etc. with man-hours spent during the consultancy work. 
 
b) Inspection / Site Visit Register: A register to record any site visit by the 
Consultant(s) be maintained by the Principal Consultant. The suggestions 
rendered by the Consultant(s) during site visit along with remarks of the 
clients must be recorded. Further, if any expert advice by external expert is 
required during the Consultancy project, the same may also be recorded along with 
the remarks of the Consultant(s). 
 
c) Salary/Payment Record: To record all payments made to Consultant(s), 
supporting staff etc. 
 
d) Consumable 
and 
Non-Consumable 
Register: 
Register 
for 
recording 
hire/purchase of all equipment, materials, all consumables, non-consumables items 
etc. and its utilization. 

 
e) Travel Record Register: To record details of all expenditure incurred on travel. 
 
f) Log books and Warranty/Guarantee Record: Log books be used to record number 
of hours, laboratory equipment or hired or purchased equipment have been 
used. Besides, maintain warranty/guarantee certificates and also breakdown 
details of equipment. 
 
g) Correspondence File: For all correspondence since initiation. 
 
h) Agreement/Contract File: To maintain complete record of all agreements, 
contracts, drawings and such document which may constitute legal requirement. 
 
i) Work Progress Report: Record of monthly progress report will be maintained 
by the Consultant(s). Every three months, the consultant(s) is supposed to 
submit a copy of progress report to the client. 
 
j) Any Other Document: Any other document as per the requirement of the 
client / nature of consultancy project, etc. shall also be maintained by the 
Consultant(s) 
 
12. Review 
 
These rules may be reviewed from time to time as per needs. 

Annexure-I 
Standard Terms and Conditions 
 
In addition to the specified General Consultancy rules, the following terms and 
conditions will apply to consultancy projects taken under all categories by SVSU, unless 
otherwise mutually agreed to in a separate document. 
 
1. DECLARATION: All consultancy work undertaken by SVSU as part of the project 
will be in good faith and based on material / data / other relevant information given 
by the Client requesting for the work. 
 
2. CONFIDENTIALITY: Due care will be taken by SVSU to maintain confidentiality 
and discretion regarding confidential information received from the Client, including 
but not limited to results, reports and identity of the client. 
 
3. REPORTS: Any test or other consultancy report given by SVSU will be based on 
work performed according to available standards and / or open domain literature. 
In any event, this report may not be construed as a legal document, certificate or 
endorsement and may not be used for marketing of the products or processes, 
without prior consent from SVSU. The university reserves the right to retain one 
copy of the report and use the results of the project for its internal teaching and 
research purposes. 
 
4. WORK PERFORMANCE: Every effort will be made to complete the specified 
work according to the planned time schedule. However, SVSU will not be held 
responsible for delays caused beyond its reasonable control. 
 
5. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: SVSU may take up work for other clients also in the 
same area, provided, to the best of the university’s knowledge, there is no conflict 
of interest in undertaking such projects. 
 
6. PAYMENT: The payment of consultancy work to SVSU generally are to be made 
in advance and in full before the start of the project, through a demand draft / 
crossed valid cheque, drawn in favour of Registrar, SVSU and sent to the office of 
Dean/Director - CS. The charges will also include any applicable tax as prescribed 
by the Government of India from time to time. 
 
7. TERMINATION: The consultancy project work may be terminated by either 
party by giving the other party a notice period of 30 days. However, both parties 
will meet any residual obligations in connection with the project. 
 
8. LIABILITY: SVSU shall not be held liable for any loss, damage, delay or failure 
of performance, resulting directly or indirectly from any cause, which is beyond its 
reasonable control (Force Majeure). 
 
9. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS: All rights pertaining to any intellectual 
property generated / created / invented in the due course of the project, will be 
the 

joint property of SVSU and the Consultant(s). Terms and conditions regarding 
transferring / assigning / selling these rights to the client shall be governed by a 
separate written and mutually agreed to document, if required. 
 
10. ROYALTY: Out of the sales made for a patent emerging from consultancy work, 
an annual royalty (to be divided equally between the consultant and the University) 
of a fixed percentage (to be decided by the Vice Chancellor) will be paid to the 
University by the client. 
 
11. RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES: Any disputes arising out of the project shall be 
amicably settled by both the organizations. The legal jurisdiction related to any type 
of litigation will remain Gurugram or Palwal only. The arbitration power shall lie with 
Registrar, SVSU in case of any dispute and the decision taken by the Registrar shall 
be final. 

Annexure-II 
Consultancy Services 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
(INDIA) 
 
1. Name 
of 
the 
Department/Office/Branch:  
 
2. Title 
of 
the 
Consultancy 
Project: 
 
3. Consultancy Project Category: I / II    
 
4. Duration of the Consultancy Project (Year/Month/Days):   
 
5. (i) Date of Commencement 
(ii) 
Expected 
Date 
of 
Completion  
 
6. Detailed Project Report (DPR) attached: YES / NO   
 
7. Client’s Name and Address 
  
_ 
 
8. Type of Client (Tick): Private Sector/ Govt. Sector/ Public Sector /Foreign Agency 
/ Others (Please Specify) 
9. Payment to be received in: FULL / Part 
; 
Indian 
Currency 
/Foreign Currency   
 
 
10. Whether MoU/ Agreement Signed with Client (Attach, if any): Signed / Not 
Signed 
11. Consent Letter from the Client attached: YES / NO   
 
12. Consent Letter from the Consultant(s) attached: YES / NO   
 
13. Whether Eligibility criteria as Consultant(s) fulfilled as per Consultancy Rules 
of the University: Yes / No If Yes, attach in DPR the detailed proof(s) in support 
of claiming the eligibility as Consultant(s). 
14. Consultant(s) Certificate (Annexure III) attached: YES / NO   
 
15. Details of Persons involved in the Consultancy Project: 
 
 
 
Name of Consultant(s) 
along with Designation & 
Department/Office/Branch 
Brief role 
Man 
Days 
Signature
FORM FOR APPROVAL OF CONSULTANCY PROJECT 

Attach with DPR another sheet giving details regarding (i) Task and  
Responsibilities of the Consultant(s) in detail (ii) Details along with Name, 
Designation, Task and Responsibilities, etc. of the Ministerial staff and Technical 
staff to be involved in the consultancy project. (ii) Detailed Schedule (including 
Travel) of the Consultancy Project justifying the Man days required for completion 
of the Consultancy Project. 
 
16. Budget (should conform to the amount of contract/ agreement with the Client) 
 
Description 
Budgeted Amount 
1.Gross Amount including Service Tax, G 
2.Service Tax, L 
3. Contracted Amount, T=G-L 
4.Total Expenditure, E 
5.University Share as per Project Category, U                            
6. Balance Amount for Distribution, D 
ATTACH WITH DPR, A SEPARATE SHEET GIVING COMPLETE TENTATIVE DETAILS 
of the following: 
(i) Amount to be used for Total Expenditure (E) by the Consultant(s) as per 
Consultancy Rules. 
(ii) Amount (D) to be distributed among the Consultant(s) and other bodies as per 
Consultancy Rules. 
Signature of the Principal Consultant (with 
date) Forwarded by Head of Department/Dean/branch/office 
Dean (RC) office, SVSU 
Consultancy Project No.: 
Dated:   
 
 
Recommendations of Consultancy Service Committee: 
Approved / 
Not Approved / Suggestions for improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Convener 
Member(s) 

Annexure – III 
 
 
Consultant(s) Certificate 
 
1. Certified that this consultancy assignment shall not clash with my 
teaching/office work in the department/office or any other official duty at the 
University. 
2. That the interest of my department/office in the University shall not suffer. 
 
 
 
(Consultant’s Signature) 
 
Address (Office) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Countersigned with official stamp) 
Head of the Dept./Dean/Branch / 
Office 

