=== SVSU COMPREHENSIVE KNOWLEDGE BASE (Auto-refreshed from PDFs + OCR fallback) ===


--- DOCUMENT: A3.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY SVSU First Skill University of India, setup by Govt. of Haryana www.svsu.ac.in NIRF 82% Rank 3'd 82.7 Placement Campus Acres. 125+ 60+ 213 Industry. Programs Mous Partners Signed SVSU: Where Classroom Meots Industry Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology (SFET) Skill Faculty of Applied Science and Humanities (SFASH) Industry Partners Programs Programs Industry Partners oma of Vocation (D, Voc.) Draughtsmanship NCCBM,BMTPC Undergraduate DiplomainJapanLangua SVSU Undergraduate Diplomaln Geman Language iploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Concentrix SKH Metals, Senior India, Roop Auto facturing B.Voc. (Public Services) Inspire Deslgn Academy B.Sc.Mathematics and Computing (Hons.with SVSU SVSU JBM Group PG Diploma Criminal Forensics Diploma in Mechanical Engineering TuaHalitizpital, EatestAutomatinTechnloyPtd PG Diploma Public Palicy Diploma in Industrial Electronics MPRI (Tralning Partner) M.Sc. Geo-informatics GMDA Diploma in Computer Science & Englneering andYBIFo Diploma Computer (Generative AV Cyber Security ) Skill Faculty of Medical &Allied Health Sciences (SFMAHS Bachelor of Vocatien (B, Vec.) Solar Technolegy Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. Atlas Hospital, Yatharth Hospital Bachelor in Pharmacy (B. Pharmacy) AnandGroup,HEROMo Bachelor of Vocation (BVo.) Mechanical Atas Hospital, Yatharh Hospita Manufacturing Bachelor in Physiotherapy Atlas Hospital, Yatharth Hospital BachelorofVocation (BVo) Mechatroni HERO Motocorp a Sai Health Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc. / Hons, with Research) B.Voe,(Medical Laboratory Technology) Honours JBM Group & Orangewood Labs Pvt. Ltd. GreatL with Research BVo.(Retlgeratlonand Alr onditionng) Daikin Industries Ilndia Pvt Ltd. rator t Ltd, Genet Bachelor in Computer Applications BCA / BCA B.Se[Nursing) ous Egh In, VastaIntllct,Darkblu Devops BSe. Yga&Spritual Slence) Ministry of Ayush (Gont of Haryana) Bachelorf Technoloy (B.Tch.J Compute DarkBlueDeps, Vastav Intllect, Globus Eigh Engincering B.Se. Clinical Psychology Bachelor of Technoloy (B.Tech.) Computer Scienc DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eigh and YBlFoundation Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, Dr Suraj JBM Group, HL, Mando Softech India Pvt Ld M.Se. MLT (Microbiology) Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Electrical Auto lnition Ld, Ztrane Tchnology Pt. Ld vt Lid. Engincering Alrport Authorty of lndl, -Ashwa Autmote. Schneider Electric, Zetrance Technology P M.Se. Clinical Psychology PG Diplomaln Semlconductor Device Skill Faculty of Management Research and Studies (SFMSR) ging(PGDSDP) Diplomaof Vocatlon (D.Voe.) Oftice Management DarkBlue Ds, Vasa lintllect, Gobus Eig SOTC, Techview Research & Processlng Pvt Ld Master of Computer Application (MCA) Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robctlcs and JBM Group & Orangewood Labs Pvt. Ltd. Traditional Sweets graduate Certificate in Food Production & B. Voc. Management (Financial Services) Hons. Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc), SOTC, The Skill Faculty of Agriculture (SFA) JHons.WithResearch BBA-BPM and Analytics (Hons. f Hons, With Concentrix Daksh,Cyfuture, Ease My Process Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.) Horticulture Shivansh Farm ning, Blue Green Nirja tesearch) BBA Hons/Hons.with Research MSIL, Spencer, Fronter Group. Canta BBA (AIrlnes and Alrport Management) Bachelor of Vocation (B, Voc.) Agriculture Airport Authority of India BSC (Agriculture) ranhFingFmusFhabr B. Com Hons./Hons.with Research crop Bachelor of Hotel Management Masters of Vocation (M. Voc.) Agriculture tydyMkwaa My Crop, M.Voe Management Banking & Finance) Skill Faculty of Performing and Visual Arts (SFPVA) HDFC Bank, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank M.Voc. Management (HRM) Mount Talent,Dzlre Group Bachelor of Performing Ars (Music) SVSU Post Graduate Diploma in Airport Operations and Bachelor of Performing Arts ( Dance & Drama) SVSU Management Airport Authority of India B.Voc. (Printing & Packaging) SVSU MBA Mazars, Dzre, Adamant HR Bachelor of Fine Arts (Painting/Applied Art)r SVSU MBA (Business Analytics) Sculpture Mazars, Dzire B.Sc. Animation & Muttimedia MBA (Working Professional) B.Sc. Graphics Design SVSU LL.M Certfiate In Jewellery Deslgn CAD SVsU Contactusforanyquery:admissions@svsu.ac.in Certificate in Jewellery Retail Management SVSU SVSU Call : 18001800147 E-commerce & Digital Marketing for Jewellery 9306095464,9253364547,9253224547,9253394547 Campus : Village Dudhola, Distt. Palwal (Haryana) 121102I Gurugram Office : Plot No. 147, Sector 44, Gurugram (Haryana) 122003


--- DOCUMENT: Academic Ordinance Updated on 06.05.2024.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC ORDINANCES Version 2.0 9-13-2022

[PAGE 2]
1 Contents 1 ORDINANCE I ADMISSIONS(Under Section 24 A,B,C,D of SVSU Act.) ..........................4 2 ORDINANCE II REGISTRATION OF STUDENTS (Under section 24 C of SVSU Act) ......6 3 ORDINANCE III BOARD OF STUDIES (Under section 19 (1) of SVSU Act) ...................10 4 ORDINANCE IV STUDENTS RESIDENCE, HEALTH & WELFARE BOARD (Under Section 24 G of SVSU Act) .......................................................................................................12 5 ORDINANCE V GUIDELINES FOR CONDONING DEFICIENCY IN LECTURES/OJT, ETC. (Under Section 24 C of SVSU Act) ...................................................................................15 6 ORDINANCE VI CONSTITUTION AND FUNCTIONS OF STAFF COUNCILS AND/OR DEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEES IN UNIVERSITY TEACHING DEPARTMENTS (Under Section 19 & 11 of SVSU Act) ...................................................................................................17 7 ORDINANCE VII POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF TEACHING AND NON- TEACHING STAFF OF SVSU (Under Section 22(a) & (b) of SVSU Act.) ..................................19 8 ORDINANCE VIII AWARD OF DEGREES (Under Section 24 C of SVSU Act) ...............76 9 ORDINANCE IX ............77 10 ORDINANCE X PROHIBITION OF RAGGING (Under Section 24 (k) of SVSU Act) .......83 11 ORDINANCE XI EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS' GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL COMITTEES (Under Section of 30 & 24 (L) of SVSU Act) ........................................................88 12 ORDINANCE XII GAMES AND SPORTS COMMITTEE (Under Section 22 (j) of SVSU Act) 91 13 ORDINANCE XIII GRANT OF FREESHIPS TO STUDENTS (Under Section 24 (E) & 22 (F) of SVSU Act) .......................................................................................................................93 14 ORDINANCE XIV AWARD OF FELLOWSHIPS, SCHOLARSHIPS, STUDENTSHIPS, MEDALS AND PRIZES (Under Section 246 (C1) & Section 22 (F) (xii) and Section 28 (1) (f ) of SVSU Act) .................................................................................................................................95 15 ORDINANCE XV HONORARY PROFESSORS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) .......96 16 ORDINANCE XVI ADJUNCT PROFESSORS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) ..........97 17 ORDINANCE XVII VISITING PROFESSORS, VISITING FELLOWS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) ........................................................................................................................... 101 18 ORDINANCE XVIII PROFESSOR EMERITUS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act)....... 102 19 ORDINANCE XIX PROFESSOR OF PRACTICE (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) ... 103 20 ORDINANCE XX DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES/GUIDELINES FOR THE UNIVERSITY (Under Section 8 (Schedule Section 8.1) of SVSU Act)........................................................... 106 21 ORDINANCE XXI ACADEMIC COSTUMES (Under Section 23 (Schedule Section 16) of SVSU Act) ............................................................................................................................... 108 1 Preliminaries .................................................................................................................... 111 2 Short-Term Programme ....................................................................................................... 111

[PAGE 3]
2 3 Curriculum ........................................................................................................................... 112 4 Industry Integrated Model ................................................................................................ 113 5 Examination ..................................................................................................................... 115 6 ................................................................................................ 123 7 ....................................................................................................... 123

[PAGE 4]
3 This Academic Ordinance shall supersede any provisions of the previous academic ordinances

[PAGE 5]
4 1 ORDINANCE I ADMISSIONS (Under Section 24 A,B,C,D of SVSU Act.) 1.1 Admissions of students in the University teaching/skill departments/affiliated colleges/institutions shall be regulated by an admission committee of the following: i. Vice Chancellor - Chairman ii. Dean Academic Affairs iii. All Deans of the Skill Faculties iv. Dean Studen v. Dean of Colleges/Affiliations vi. Director, Corporate affairs/Engagement vii. Chief Warden viii. Proctor ix. Controller of Examinations x. Two members to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor from the Skill Council, for a term of two years xi. Three experts from industries/academics to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor for a term of two years xii. Three Principals from Colleges/Institutions recognized/affiliated, and/or maintained by the University to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor for a term of two years; xiii. Registrar - Member Secretary Two Fifth of the members will form the Quorum 1.2 The Admission Committee shall, subject to the provisions of Ordinance, decide: i. The manner/procedure in which admission to the University Teaching/Skill Departments and Institutions recognized by/affiliated to and/or maintained by the University shall be regulated annually; and ii. May lay in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power: (a) The principles for drawing up merit lists of candidates applying for admission, and the categories of candidates for which any seats are to be reserved and/or to whom any weightage is to be allowed in the merit lists. (b) The number of seats to be offered for admission in the University teaching/Skill Departments/Skill Faculty and in affiliated/recognized/maintained college/Institutions and Chapter I

[PAGE 6]
5 number of programmes, minimum qualifications and other criterions such as age of admission, Industry partners, etc. (c) The schedule of dates for admission in various programmmes at diploma, undergraduate, post graduate and PhD level and such other matters relating to admissions as may be referred to it by the Vice Chancellor. Provided that the Vice Chancellor may, in emergency, take such decision as may be deemed necessary and report the matter in the next meeting of the Admission Committee for post facto approval. 1.3 Refusal/Cancellation of Admission If the University is not satisfied with the character, past behaviour and antecedents of a candidates, University may refuse to admit them to any programme of study in University teaching/Skill Departments and its maintained/affiliated Institutions. In order to ensure academic standards and to maintain discipline and peaceful atmosphere in the University, the Vice Chancellor may cancel the admission of any student for a specified period. 1.4 Duration of Enrollment A student of Diploma/under-graduate/post-graduate programme will continue to be on the rolls of the University Teaching/Skill Department/College affiliated to or maintained by the University as per the following: 1. * Duration of the programme enrolled (in years) + two years: Diploma/Undergraduate level 2. * Duration of the programme enrolled (in years) + three Years: Post Graduate Level * counted from the First year of admission in the programmme). For continuing as a regular student beyond the stipulated period, the Vice Chancellor may allow the same, on the recommendation of the Chairperson of the Skill Department/Principal of the College/Institution concerned.

[PAGE 7]
6 2 ORDINANCE II REGISTRATION OF STUDENTS (Under section 24 C of SVSU Act) 1. The Registrar shall maintain through its designated branch (Registration and Scholarship branch), a Register of all students registered in the University Teaching/Skill Departments and the affiliated Institutes/colleges or maintained by the University; scholars carrying on research work in the University and all other candidates appearing in the University examinations. 2. The register shall contain, in respect of each student, the full name of the candidate (as per matriculation certificate), name of father, mother, address (correspondence as well as permanent with their telephone numbers/mobile numbers), email-ids, date of birth, Institution where admitted , year of admission, particulars of the last University examination passed, every pass or failure in a University Examination with roll number, and any University scholarship, medal or prize won, every degree pursued and serious penalty imposed to him/her by the Institute or the University. 3. candidate at the specific request of the parent/candidate duly forwarded by the Chairperson of the Department/Principal of the Institutions and with the permission of the Dean Academic Affairs on merit of each case. 4. No one shall be admitted to the University or any examination of the University, unless he/she has been registered as a student of the University. 5. At the start of Semester, Instructions will be notified to all students about the university criterion for attendance. 6. At department level, the attendance of all the students will be notified on notice boards and shortfall in attendance will be communicated to the students once in a month. 7. Every student shall attend his/her classes(theory and practical)/On-Job-Training (OJT) on all working days as per the academic schedule of the University to make up the minimum attendance (75% for theory/practical and 90% for OJT) required to appear in University examination. a. If a student remains absent from his/her theory classes for a continuous period of fifteen working days without any valid reason, medical or otherwise, his/her name shall be struck off from the rolls, irrespective of the fact that student has paid his/her dues. In case a student has a valid reason for not attending the -admission name struck off (due to -admission fee for the consideration of the Dean/Chairperson of the Skill Faculty. No further request for re-admission will be considered in any case. b. If a student remains absent from OJT for a continuous period of 07 working days, without any valid reason, medical or otherwise, his/her name shall be struck off from the rolls, irrespective of the fact that student has paid his/her dues. In case a student has a valid reason for not attending the OJT he/she may submit the

[PAGE 8]
7 - the payment of Re-admission fee for the consideration of the Dean/Chairperson of the Skill Faculty. 8. At the start of every semester, Students are required to deposit their semester fees along with semester registration form. The schedule of semester registration and fee deposition after the end term examination shall be as per following:- *First day from end term examination to 10th Day: No Fine Next Ten days :@ Rs 10/- per day Next ten days: Re-admission @ Rs.1000/- with fine of Rs.10/- for each day subject to fulfilment of minimum qualifying criterion to appear in University examination. 9. *It will be effective from next day from the last date of examination. The Students may deposit their semester fees and Registration form for 10 days without any fine. After the completion of 10 days, the students may deposit their semester fees and Registration form for next 10 days with a fine of Rs.10 per day. For Next 10 days, Students may apply for Re- -admission name struck off (due to non- Programme coordinator and respective Dean with semester fees, a Re-admission fee of Rs.1000/- and a fine of Rs.10 per day by taking into consideration 75% attendance for Theory, which is mandatory condition for all the students for appearing in End term examination, which will be the last chance of fees deposition for Struck off students after that they can't claim for the re-admission. After Completion of 10 days of Re-registration, the registration branch collects the information of Re- Registered students from the account Department and issue the notice of Re- Registered students for information to all Skill Faculties. The students may attend the classes/OJT showing the fees receipt of Registration to faculty member. 10. A student from any other recognized University/Board or from a Board (other than the Board of School Education, Haryana) shall be eligible for admission to the University only on the production of a Migration certificate, in original, showing that the concerned University or the Board has no objection to his/her joining in this University. 11. Provided further that in hard and exception cases, Migration Certificate may be accepted by University on payment of late fee of Rs. 500/-, if these are submitted 30 days before the commencement of 1st Semester end term examination. Late fee of Rs. 1000/-shall be applicable if it is submitted 15 days before the commencement of the first semester End term examinations. In case of failing to adhere the due dates, the candidate may continue his/her studies provisionally at his/her own risk and responsibility of any action such as struct off name, debarment from appearing in examination shall lies with candidates itself. 12. If a candidate fails to submit the Migration Certificate along with the examination admission form in stipulated period, he/she will not be allowed to appear for the University Examination.

[PAGE 9]
8 13. Every student, who is not registered with the University, shall pay to the University, at the time of admission, through the Skill Department/College/Institute which he joins, the Registration fee of Rs.200/- and the continuation fee of Rs.100/- per annum , as prescribed by the University and may be revised from time to time by the University. 14. The names of the students in the prescribed form together with their Registration fee and migration certificate , shall be forwarded by the Chairperson/HOD/Director/Principal of University teaching/Skill Departments/every affiliated and/or maintained Institutions to the Registrar, within 30 days from the last date for admission or with late fee of Rs.100 per student after 30 days from the date of actual admission to next 30 days, In case a Institution fails to do so, the penalty as imposed by the University shall be charged for each day's delay, subject to a maximum amount of Rs.10000/-fixed by the University. In the case of a student who is already registered with the University, the record of students with their registration no. should be forwarded with continuous fees as prescribed by the University from time to time. 15. Students registered under this Ordinance shall be called "Students of the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University". 16. On registration, the student shall be provided with a registration number through Chairperson/HOD of the Skill Department/Principal/Director of Institutions indicating the number under which his/her name has been entered in the University Register, and that number shall be quoted in all subsequent communication concerning the student, and in all applications by that student for admission to a University Examination. In case of any the candidates shall be entertained by the Registrar through designated branch (R&S branch) which shall be forwarded by Chairperson/HODs/Director/Principal of University teaching/Skill Departments and affiliated colleges/Institutions up to two months from the date of issue of the registration number without charging any correction fee. Applications for corrections in the particulars received after the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be entertained only with the prescribed late fee of Rs.100/-. A person applying for change of his/her name in the University Register shall submit his/her application through the Chairperson/Head of the Department concerned/Principal/Director of the College/Institution attended by him/her. The application shall be accompanied by a fee of Rs.100/-The application shall be accompanied with Matriculation Certificate with new name and an affidavit relating to his/her present and proposed names duly sworn in the presence of a Magistrate or an Oath Commissioner by his/her parents or guardian in case of a minor, or by himself/herself in case he/she is major. In case of a woman changing her name after marriage, a self-undertaking to this effect forwarded by the Chairperson of the Department or Principal/Director of any affiliated Institution will be required and no fee shall be charged from such students.

[PAGE 10]
9 17. Application forms for appearing in University End term Examinations shall be scrutinized with reference to the details in University Register. The Registrar may refuse to accept the application of a student about whom complete particulars have not been reported or have been reported incorrectly at the time of admission. The applications should be forwarded with complete statement of the particulars together with an additional fee of Rs.500/-, as prescribed by the University, such particulars shall, in the case of a student on the rolls of a University Teaching/Skill Department/Affiliated College, be forwarded through the Chairperson/HOD of the Department/Principal/Director concerned only. 18. A person who applies for permission to appear in University end term examination as an ex-student shall quote his/her registration number. A registered student is entitled to get a certified copy of all the entries under his/her name, in case he needs certified copy for purpose of his/her academic pursuit on a payment of Rs 50/- and request shall be submitted to Registration and Scholarship Branch of the University. 19. If a student's name is struck off the rolls of the institution, or he/she migrates to another institution or applies for withdrawal of admission or is rusticated or expelled, such a fact shall immediately be reported by the Chairperson of the University Teaching or Skill Department/Principal/Director of the college to the Registrar for updating the record of students in the Registration and scholarship Branch or for such other action as may be the programme coordinator with intimation to Dean/Chairperson of the respective Skill Faculty and Department. 20. Lateral Entry- In order to make skill education relevant for livelihood and to build 'industry fit' skilled workforce, University offers lateral entry programmmes in coordination with the industry and respective Sector Skill Councils so that industry might remain updated on the front of skilled workforce to boost the local economy. There shall be credit-based modular programmes, wherein banking of credits for skill and general education components are permitted to enable multiple exit and entry during the whole programme. This would certainly enable and equip the learner to seek employment after exiting from the programme through any level of award and, if interested, may join back the programme to upgrade his/her qualification/skill competency either to move in his/her job or in the higher educational system. The National Skill Qualification Framework has important components such as multiple entry and exit, horizontal and vertical mobility between Vocational, General, Technical and job specific education, Outcomes based Learning, Industry Engagement, and National Occupational Standards, competency- based curriculum, Credit Accumulation and Transfer System (Credit Banking), Recognition of Prior Learning, Quality assurance and sharing of resources. Assessment and Certification norms will be developed by Regulatory bodies like UGC/AICTE, Sector Skill Councils or relevant industry that may be approved by NSDA wherever required.

[PAGE 11]
10 21. In line with NSQF guidelines of multiple entry and exit option at each level, University will notify the admission process for different levels as per seats available across different programmmes in an academic Session. The minimum eligibility for lateral entry at different levels shall also be published by University at the time of admission under lateral entry, which shall be approved by Skill Council of University on the recommendation of concerned BOS. Note: The University may revise the fees of different services/items from time to time. Therefore, fees prescribed during current period will be applicable to all students 3 ORDINANCE III BOARD OF STUDIES (Under section 19 (1) of SVSU Act) Every Skill Department included in Skill Faculty shall have two Boards of Studies, one for certificate/diploma studies and the other for undergraduate/postgraduate studies and research. The Board of Studies shall be constituted on the recommendation of Skill Council. 3.1 Board of Studies of Certificate/Diploma Studies The Board of Studies of certificate/diploma studies shall consist of i. The Chairperson of Skill Departments. ii. One Skill Professor in the Skill Department to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor by rotation, according to seniority. iii. One Skill Associate Professor and one Skill Assistant Professor to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor, by rotation, according to seniority. Provided that no such teacher shall be nominated for two consecutive terms: Provided further that a teacher who has been nominated as a member of the Skill Faculty shall not be nominated under this Sub-Clause; iv. three outside experts to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor on the recommendation of the Chairman of the Skill Department from academic Institution, industry/Sector Skill Council: Provided that the Executive Council, at the request of the Skill Council, may increase the number of members of a Board of certificate/diploma studies, under Sub-Clause (iv) above.

[PAGE 12]
11 3.2 Board of Studies of Undergraduate/Post Graduate Studies/Research The Board of Studies of under-graduate/post graduate studies and research shall consist of i. Dean of the Skill Faculty. ii. The Chairperson of all Skill Departments of the Skill Faculties. iii. All the Skill Professors appointed or recognized by the University in the Skill Department; iv. Two Skill Associate Professors and two Skill Assistant Professors appointed or recognized by the University in the Skill Department, to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor, by rotation, according to seniority. v. Two teachers including the Heads of the post-graduate Skill Departments in the institutions in the subject concerned with at least ten years teaching experience to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor, by rotation, according to seniority to be determined by the length of post- graduate teaching experience: Provided that not more than one such member shall be from the same institution. vi. Two Professors/Associate Professors from the affiliated/recognized institutions by rotation, according to seniority vii. Three outside experts to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor on the recommendation of the Chairman of the Skill Department from academic Institution, industry/Sector Skill Council. Provided that the Executive Council at the request of the Skill Council may increase the number of members of a Board of under graduate/post graduate studies and research under Sub-Clause (vi) above. The Board of under-graduate studies/post-graduate studies and research shall recommend to the Skill Council, through the Skill faculty concerned, programmes and syllabi of studies and text books for the various subjects for under-graduate programmes/post-graduate studies and research degree. The Board of studies shall report to the Skill Council, regarding the appointments of paper- setters and examiners for the under-graduate or the post-graduate programmes, as approved by the Vice Chancellor. The Board of studies shall deal with any other matter that may be referred to them by the Skill Faculty. Members, other than ex-officio members, shall hold office for a period of two years.

[PAGE 13]
12 4 ORDINANCE IV STUDENTS RESIDENCE, HEALTH & WELFARE BOARD (Under Section 24 G of SVSU Act) 4.1 Constitution The Board of Residence, Health and Discipline shall be constituted by the Vice Chancellor as under: i. Proctor (Chairperson). ii. Chief Warden. iii. Dean of Students Welfare. iv. Medical Officer (to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor). v. Two teachers of the University including one lady teacher, to be nominated by Vice Chancellor vi. Two Chairpersons of the Departments to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor. vii. Two teachers of the University other than the Chairpersons of Departments to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor. viii. over the meeting. The nominated members of the Committee shall hold office for a period of two years. Two- fifth of the members of the board will constitute the quorum. 4.2 Duties and Functions The Board shall: consider references received from the Departments, under this Ordinance, and advise the Departments thereon. submit to the Skill Council a report as regards residence, health, physical welfare etc. of the students. discharge such other duties as prescribed by Statutes/Ordinances or are assigned by the Vice Chancellor. Every student of a University Teaching or Skill Department admitted to the privileges of the University shall, if not residing with his/her parents or guardian and approved by the Chairperson of the Department of the University, stay, during the academic session in

[PAGE 14]
13 A hostel managed or recognized by the University. a lodge approved by the Chief Warden. Every Warden shall maintain an upto date register containing information related to the residence of its students and shall submit to the University within one month of the date of the admission, a statement to this effect for the information of the Board. The University shall appoint one or more qualified Medical Officer to look after the health of the students. The Medical Officer shall visit the Department/hostel in case of emergency. At least once in each academic year, the Medical Officer shall conduct a physical medical examination for all students of the University Teaching Departments and shall record the result of the medical inspection of each student giving such medical advice and assistance as he/she may consider necessary and bring to the notice of the Chairpersons of the University Teaching Departments all cases of serious nature. The University shall also engage the services of a lady doctor for female students. A report on the general results of the medical examination along with Medical Officer's recommendations shall be forwarded to the Registrar for information of the Board. Every student on the rolls of a Department shall pay an annual medical fee which shall be utilized only for the purpose of examination and medical assistance to the students. Subject to the Ordinance, the Board shall inspect once in every academic year each Department together with such buildings as maybe occupied for the use of students and shall submit a report to the Vice Chancellor with such recommendations as it may reach at. The Board may at any time direct one or more of its members to make a special inspection and to report on any Department regarding compliance with the condition of the residence as laid down by the Ordinance. The Chairperson of each Department may intimate twice a year to the parents/guardians of the students regarding shortage of attendance poor academic performance an act of indiscipline general conduct Every student, exempted from residence in the Hall, shall live either with a parent or some person accepted by the Chairperson of the Department concerned, as the case may be, to be his guardian. The lodgings of such non-resident students shall be subject to the approval of the Chairperson of his Department. The Board shall be an Advisory Body for making modifying or Suggesting policy matters placed before it to the Vice Chancellor.

[PAGE 15]
14 The recommendations of the Board shall be implemented after due examination, modification or amendment, if necessary, with the approval of the Vice Chancellor.

[PAGE 16]
15 5 ORDINANCE V GUIDELINES FOR CONDONING DEFICIENCY IN LECTURES/OJT, ETC. (Under Section 24 C of SVSU Act) 1. Students must have a minimum of 75 % attendance of the lectures delivered (In theory -the-Job-Training (OJT). The Chairperson of University Teaching or Skill Department/Principal of affiliated college/Institute may condone a deficiency up to 5% on genuine grounds. A further condonation of 5% in attendance may be allowed in severe/Compassionate circumstances by the Vice Chancellor on recommendation by Dean of concerned skill faculty. It is further clarified that the student who has been sent by the University/Institute to participate/attend an event shall be treated as present during the days of event including journey days, if any, subject to the condition that the student must have attended at least 55% of the general education component classes (In theory and students. 2. If any student fails to attend the classes theory/practical/OJT without prior information to the department for consecutive 21 days, the name will be struck off from rolls of University and he/she have to repeat the semester with next batch of students in respective program & will not be eligible for promotion to next semester. Department will recommend list of such students to the office of Dean Academic Affairs for necessary action. 3. A student, who has not attended the minimum percentage of lectures/practical/OJT etc., as prescribed in the Clause no.1 of Ordinance III and the deficiency thereof has not been condoned by the Chairperson/Head of the Department concerned, shall not be eligible to appear in the University end term examination. 4. If the Chairperson/Head of the Department concerned is not satisfied with the reasons for the shortage given by the student, it is not obligatory on his part to condone the shortage. The decision of the Chairperson/Head of the Department concerned shall be final. 5. If, at the time of submission of Examination Form in a semester, a student has not completed the required percentage of lectures, etc., as per Clause no. 1 of Ordinance III, his/her name may be sent to the examination branch provisionally. Fifteen working days before the date of commencement of examination, The Chairperson of the University Skill Department/Principal of the College/Institute shall forward the name of the students to the Controller of Examinations if the student has made up the required percentage of lectures or if the deficiency has not been condoned. In case, admit cards has been dispatched by the examination in respect of such students and are received by the

[PAGE 17]
16 Chairperson/Head of the Department/Principal of the Institute, admit cards of these students shall be immediately returned to the Controller of Examinations. 6. When, owing to an epidemic, a Department is closed for more than a fortnight, the Chairperson/Head of the Department/Principal of the College/Institute may give full credit for the number of lectures, etc. 7. Lectures shall be counted up to the last working day before lectures ceases and the Department closes for preparatory holidays as per academic calendar. 8. Unless otherwise provided in any other Ordinance, if the percentage of attendance is deficient on account of: i. participation in Inter-University/Inter-Collegiate Sports Tournaments/Youth Festivals, Inter -University Level Debate, National and International Tournaments with the previous sanction of the Chairperson/HOD/Principal; or ii. attendance at the N.C.C. or NSS Camps or University Educational Excursions or other extra-curricular activities certified by the Chairperson/HOD/Principal; iii. attendance at Mountaineering Courses by N.C.C. students; iv. NSS students sent by the Youth Welfare Department; v. voluntary donation of blood, certified by a Govt. Doctor of Gazetted rank or University Medical Officer. vi. attendance at Seminars/workshop will be counted as lectures subject to the prior permission obtained from the chairperson/HOD/Principal Credit may be given for the number of days on which lectures were delivered or tutorials or that the total period of absence shall not exceed 11 days in a semester and that for (v) above it shall not exceed 2 days subject to conditions in Clause no.1., Ordinance III. Such claims are subject to submission of the necessary documents and prior timely information to the Chairperson of department. However, such claims will not be a matter of right and may be rejected by department. 8. The Vice Chancellor may condone further shortage of attendance only in case of highly meritorious cases. 9. A student of a University Teaching or Skill Department/affiliated college or institute, who is unable to appear in an examination owing to shortage in prescribed course of lectures/OJT etc. in a subject or subjects, may appear in next year University examination as a re-appear candidate as per University Examination Ordinance. 10. Permission for joining late shall not be accepted as a justification for condoning deficiency in lectures. Provided that in case of a candidate who is allowed admission late as a result of any change in the rules/admission policy made by the University, minimum requirements of lectures shall be counted from the date of admission.

[PAGE 18]
17 6 ORDINANCE VI CONSTITUTION AND FUNCTIONS OF STAFF COUNCILS AND/OR DEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEES IN UNIVERSITY TEACHING DEPARTMENTS (Under Section 19 & 11 of SVSU Act) All the regular teachers of a Department shall be members of the Departmental Staff Council. The Staff Council will be headed by the Chairperson of concerned Department, the Staff Council will have the power to approve/modify the recommendations and decisions of the Departmental Committee(s) that it may constitute to help in the proper functioning of the Department(s). i. The Chairperson of the Department shall call at least one meeting of the Staff Council every term/semester of the Academic year. A meeting of the Staff council/Departmental Committee may be requisitioned by 1/3rd (but not less than 2 members) of the number of regular teachers (not counting those on long leave). ii. The notice for the meeting of the Staff Council/Departmental Committee will be issued at least a week in advance. However, an emergent meeting of the Staff Council can be held, if need be, after indicating sufficient ground for the same and giving at least one day's notice. iii. The quorum for meeting of the Staff Councils shall be 50% of the total strength of the regular teachers as per Clause (i) above. For want of quorum, a meeting shall be adjourned for two hours. There will be no quorum for an adjourned meeting. iv. The functions of the Staff Council shall include the following: (a) To consider the ways and means of ensuring research facilities for as many teachers as possible within limitations of the Departmental Budget. (b) To recommend on allocation of funds provided by or through the University excluding personal research schemes for research and other academic activities of the Department and for purchase of equipment, chemicals and other requirements. (c) To consider and propose the Annual and Supplementary budget of the Department. (d) To make recommendations to Board of Studies for changes in schemes, syllabi and subjects of the programme. (e) To make detailed duty charts for non-teaching staff. (f) To consider and recommend other matters brought to its notice by the Departmental Committee or by any member.

[PAGE 19]
18 (g) Assignment of duties within the Department to various teachers. (h) To recommend the introduction of new programmes and revisions of scheme and syllabi. (i) Any other matter relating to the development of Department. The Staff Council shall elect at the start of every academic year, a Secretary to the Staff Council who would be responsible to convene the meeting, in consultation with the Chairperson, and supply the necessary agenda for the same. He/She will prepare the proceedings of the meetings which should be signed and issued by him/her for circulation among the members of the staff after approval of the Chairperson within ten days of the meeting. After confirmation of the same in the next meeting, copies of the proceedings duly signed by the Chairperson and the Secretary will be prepared for distribution amongst the individual members and one copy should be sent to the Academic Branch.

[PAGE 20]
19 7 ORDINANCE VII POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF TEACHING AND NON-TEACHING STAFF OF SVSU (Under Section 22(a) & (b) of SVSU Act.) This Ordinance will come in force from the date on which it is approved by the Executive Council. Any act of indiscipline committed before this date with respect to which proceedings have not been started will also be processed under the provisions of this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall apply to all students of the University irrespective of place and manner of the act of indiscipline committed by them. It will also include a student enrolled in diploma or Certificate programme or any other category of programme in which instruction/education is imparted by the University or in service student, viz. Research Scholars etc. This Ordinance will not have any over-riding effect on the powers of Vice Chancellor prescribed in this regard under University Act and any other powers vested in the Vice Chancellor through the SVSU Act 2016 and the Statutes framed under the authority of this Act. 7.1 Dean Academic Affairs 7.1.1 Role of Dean Academic Affairs Dean Academic Affairs provides University level leadership, management and oversight of all academic affairs of the University. The Dean shall provide mentoring support to faculty members and staff to perform to the best of their abilities. Dean Academic Affairs shall work closely with the other Deans/Directors/Chairpersons to ensure outstanding service to all faculty members, staff, and students. The Dean of Academic Affairs, through effective policy and decision making shall ensure that academic activities are aligned with the overall vision, mission, and values of the University is achieved. 7.1.2 Duties and Functions The duties and functions of the Dean Academic Affairs shall be: way of learning through innovative teaching pedagogy, effective teaching-learning, hands on practice in laboratories, OJT (On Job Training), workshops, mentoring etc. in tune with NSQF. Liaison with various skill stake holders, including skilling councils, NSDA, NSDC, Ministry of Education, UGC and other government agencies/ministries/industries/Industry Federations & Chambers for establishing skilling as aspirational & successful carrier path catering to challenges of 21st century. Provide Team leadership & mentoring to his/her team to bring out the best out of all process contributors, by empathetic approach towards their concern & problems, by setting, and holding, a defensible standard of ethics and value system.

[PAGE 21]
20 Coordinate various academic processes, including Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) with designed curriculum (theoretical subjects & OJT content), teaching/learning/training/OJT/workshops/laboratories. Groom leaders/team members as professionals and instill in them, moral and ethical values. Support in conducting Faculty member/Trainers/Staff Development Programme with encouraging them with R&D/innovation. Create KRAs and career pathways for Deans. Overcome process bottlenecks/internal barriers through collaboration and Interpersonal skills. Adopt Participative management style by involving all the team members for encouraging their individual contribution in any strategic decision making, there by generating a sense of belonging in each. As a member of University Skill Council, perform various activities, related to fulfilling objectives of the skill council. Support the University in fulfilling the following objectives: Provide the pathways for Students Admission process. Identify the Digital Learning platform. Provide the regular insight for development of University Regulations and Affiliation by laws, Statutory Compliances. Plan the Ordinances for Ph.D. Process. Be involved in all programme aspects, including working with faculty members on efficient delivery of the programme and student satisfaction. ensure that quality and standards are maintained. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 22]
21 7.2 Deans of Skill Faculties 7.2.1 Role of Dean of Skill Faculty The Dean of Skill Faculty is responsible for providing leadership to their respective Skill Faculty and managing the processes through which teaching is conducted and administered at University. The Dean shall be responsible to mentor new faculty members in conjunction with Chairpersons and faculty mentors. The Deans shall develop and recommend strategic goals to ensure innovation, quality, continuous improvement, and growth of University, particularly with respect to their respective Skill Faculty. Dean of each Skill Faculty shall ensure that the vision, mission and values of the Skill Faculty is aligned with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. 7.2.2 Duties and Functions The duties and functions of Dean of Skill Faculty is as given below: ing pedagogy, effective teaching-learning, hands on practice in laboratories, OJT (On Job Training), workshops, mentoring etc. in tune with NSQF. Convene meetings of the Skill Faculty and preside over them. Have the right to be present and to take part in discussion at any meeting of any committee of the Skill Faculty. Co-ordinate teaching and research work of the University in the Skill Faculties assigned to the faculty members. Recommend to the Skill Council, the programmes of studies and syllabi for the different examinations after necessary reports from the Board of Studies. Receive report from the Departments for the creation and abolition of posts and to forward them to the Skill Council with such recommendations as it may consider reasonable. Discuss and suggest to the Skill Council schemes for the advancement of standards of teaching and examinations. Support Chairpersons for conducting short term programmes @ 1:4 (Long-term: Short term) in consultation with the Incharge Short-Term Programmes of the University and the Corporate Relations and Engagement cell Ensure implementation of one man one machine concept across all skill programmes offered by the skill faculty. Ensure implementation of the concept of integrated qualifications into degree programmes for all skill programmes offered by the Skill Faculty Deal with any other matter that may be referred to her/him by the Skill Council or Vice Chancellor.

[PAGE 23]
22 Support the following activities for all long term and short-term programmes: Co-ordinate academic and resource planning. Ensure development of academic resources. Monitor academic progress of students and faculty members Constitute and co-ordinate BOS meetings. Ensure the assessment of faculty members. Approve DPR for new programme. Approve Qualification files for further approval of NSQC. Facilitate FDP, seminars, and workshops for faculty members and instructors. Facilitate the planning for laboratories and equipment for faculty members. Approve Academic Calendar. Recommend shortlisted adjunct faculty based on inputs received from Chairpersons as and when required. Conduct and facilitate interviews of guest faculty as and when required in coordination with establishment branch. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Create KRAs and career pathways for Chairpersons for their respective Skill Faculty. Make budgetary provisions with approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.3 Dean of Policy and Planning 7.3.1 Role of Dean Policy and Planning Dean Policy and Planning is responsible for coordinating policy development and programme evaluation for the overall growth and development of the University. The Dean shall facilitate research in the area of skill policy and planning, coordinating with various organisations at the state, national and international levels to update and align the support studies on skill gaps, future skills and impact of skill training in the University to fill identified gaps in the field.

[PAGE 24]
23 The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives. 7.3.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Dean are as under: better interaction amongst the offices of Deans/Director, Registrar and other sections of administration for smooth functioning. Facilitate in research to find the State Specific Skill Requirement through Industry organizations/State Government Departments/Reports and other data points. Support research and consultancy Department in research on requirement of future skills. Plan and suggest steps for the skill training to fill the identified skill gap. Coordinate impact study of skill training at University and subsequently State level. Coordinate Academic Research in the area of Skill Policy and Planning. Facilitate updation of the University vision document. Facilitate research and consultancy work related to skill for other Departments. Prepare Skill Policy papers for consideration by the Academics, Training and Placement Department and Short-term training Programme teams. Prepare sustainable plan/models of Skill programmes/Courses/Work Study Model and Skilling Framework. Coordinate with State/National and International Organizations working in the area of Skill Policy and planning for synchronization of University vision document with outside skill ecosystem. Coordinate matters pertaining to administration, establishment and budgetary management by interacting with various sections. Planning and coordination to prepare long term perspective plan; suggest policy development and programme evaluation for growth and development of the University. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc.

[PAGE 25]
24 Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 26]
25 7.4 Dean of Centre for Research, Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Excellence 7.4.1 Role of Dean of Centre for Excellence for Research, Innovation and Entrepreneurship The Dean of Centre for Research, Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Excellence is responsible for establishing various centres of excellence for teaching, training, and research in coordination with various academic/research associations and industries. The Dean shall facilitate research activities including filing for patents, acquiring seed funding and research grants. The Dean shall also provide support to organise regular events and activities to motivate the faculty members for publications in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The Dean is responsible to support and encourage mutually beneficial innovation activities with the industry. The Dean shall manage the overall coordination of PhD programmes as per the PhD Ordinance. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives of the University and accreditation and ranking bodies. 7.4.2 Duties and Functions Develop state of the art infrastructure and support Skill Faculties for the Centre for Excellence for Research and Innovation. Identify a team of SMEs with the support of Skill Faculties to implement the Centre of Excellence in the University. Facilitate an ecosystem for students and faculty members to undertake collaborative and innovative research, consultancy, and projects. Facilitate the University in getting research and sponsored projects, research grants and research seed money. Facilitate to carry out research on latest industry practices, breakthrough technology, training methodology and modules etc. Facilitate to conduct fundamental and applied research projects. Create and develop laboratories and invite people from the local, state and national levels to contribute to the research and innovation projects and patents Facilitate research in innovative and upcoming fields and organise expert sessions of eminent professionals on innovation to motivate the students and faculty members of the University.

[PAGE 27]
26 Analyse the latest practices in research and training in the field of entrepreneurship and create a network with various institutes and organisations to support entrepreneurship training in the University. Facilitate in organising regular events and activities to motivate the faculty members for publications in research, innovation and entrepreneurship. Facilitate interaction with various industries, academic, research, and professional associations, within India and abroad, to create various centres of excellence of teaching, training, and research. Facilitate the preparation and maintenance of various grant applications, records, reports, and files related to activities, performance, and outcomes. Facilitate coordination between Director Centre of Excellence, faculty members, staff, administration, industry, and governmental agencies. advisory groups. Ensure strategic connections with all stakeholders. Design and develop the PhD ordinance. Overall coordination of Ph.D. programme and facilitate in establishing IP Cell in the University. Proactively encourage technology development activities and create various schemes to support faculty members and in filing for patents and publications including Ph.D. Programmes. Create KRAs and career pathways for their team members. Make budgetary provisions with the approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time

[PAGE 28]
27 7.5 Dean of Colleges/Affiliations 7.5.1 Role of Dean Colleges/Affiliations Dean of Colleges and Affiliations is responsible for formulating the affiliation policies, supporting the activities of affiliated colleges, and providing effective leadership to ensure that affiliated colleges follow all mandatory compliances under UGC and AICTE. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives. 7.5.2 Duties and Functions The duties and responsibilities of the Dean are as under: Design and define the affiliation policy of the University for granting affiliation, renewal of affiliation, and/or withdrawal of affiliation and ensure the compliance of the policy for all affiliated colleges and institutes. Interact with other Universities to update the procedures and policies of the University. Interact with various colleges and other education institutes in the state to identify scope for affiliation with the University. Responsible for the proper implementation on norms standards and guidelines of the University in all affiliated colleges/institutes on all aspects of academic and administrative matters. Conduct regular inspections and visits to ensure that the training pedagogy and methodology for the approved programmes in affiliated colleges and institutes is followed as per UGC and University guidelines. Interact with the statutory bodies like UGC and AICTE to ensure that all mandatory compliances are followed by the affiliated colleges/institutes. Explore the opportunity with the affiliated colleges to conduct conferences, seminars, workshops etc. for the benefit of students of their respective regions. Facilitate the training of faculty members of the affiliated college/institution as per requirement. Facilitate the visit of the students of affiliated colleges/institutions to the SVSU campus as per their need. Coordinate with the COE of the University for registering students, conducting the examinations and availability of the results. Facilitate the eligibility check in coordination with the academics branch of the admitted students in the affiliated colleges/institutions and registering them with the University. Overall coordination with affiliated colleges. Seek periodic feedback from affiliated colleges, industry partners and other relevant stakeholders and propose corrective actions as appropriate.

[PAGE 29]
28 Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.6 Dean of Corporate Relations and Engagement 7.6.1 Role of Dean of Corporate Relations and Engagement Dean Corporate Relations and Engagement is responsible for industry engagement activities like joint projects, internships, workshops, seminars, expert talks, OJT, etc., to identify industry relevant short-term and long-term training programmes and collaborations. The Dean shall facilitate student-industry relations and career services, drawing on existing industry partners and connecting with new potential partners for student training and placements. In addition to industry engagement and student placements, the Dean is responsible for coordinating alumni relation activities and leveraging alumni connect to build on existing programmes. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives. 7.6.2 Duties and Functions The duties and responsibilities of the Dean are as under: Facilitate student-industry relations through internships, student participation in joint projects with industry, workshop, fellowships, seminars, career placement, etc. Promote job opportunities for students by connecting and inviting industries to the University. Facilitate student career services, including career counselling, grooming and helping students for interviews, CV preparation, LinkedIn profiles, etc. Facilitate coordination with the alumni association and ensure the development of alumni portal on the University website. Facilitate the management of the alumni endowment funds to support academically bright and financially deserving students who want to pursue vocational education. Facilitate the organisation of alumni meets/talks, student interactions, expert sessions, networking events, etc. Facilitate feedback from alumni and propose corrective actions as appropriate.

[PAGE 30]
29 Facilitate coordination with Skill Departments for running short term training programmes. Facilitate signing of MoUs with industry partners to run short-term programmes. Identify the need based short term programmes in coordination with the industries and communicating the same to the concerned Skill Departments. Compiling a list of short-term programmes from all Skill Departments and preparing the annual calendar and brochure. Monitoring and ensuring the conduct of short-term programme as per the annual calendar. om traditional education systems. Support in conduct of industry research to identify future job trends to understand the job roles relevant for each industry for conduct of training. Support in identifying and engaging more industry partners for existing as well as upcoming programmes. Facilitate industry outreach via professional Network like LinkedIn, and through membership of industry associations like CII, FICCI, PHDCCI, etc. Ensure signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the University and industries to bring the two sides strategically closer for conduct of off-campus, on-campus, short-term training programmes, academic collaboration, research projects, and any other mutually beneficial programmes. Ensure all MoU with various industry partners are renewed as per the terms of the MoU. Facilitate industrial visits and expert talks for faculty members/instructors and students, thus enabling them to update their knowledge of the industry practices. Assist the Skill Faculties/Departments in organising workshops, conferences, seminars, and symposia with joint participation of the industries, leading to sponsored programmes. Coordinate visit of industry executives/domain experts to the University for exploring research work and laboratories. Overall coordination of on-the-job training (OJT) of students in industries for programmes under all Skill Faculties. Ensure regular feedbacks from industry partners on the performance of various programmes through the nodal officers of the Skill Faculties.

[PAGE 31]
30 Create KRAs and career pathways for incharges of Employability & Livelihood Cell; Alumni Relations; Short-Term Programmes; and Industry Integration. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.7 Dean of International Collaboration 7.7.1 Role of Dean of International Collaboration Dean of International Collaboration is responsible for supporting foreign students, visiting scholars, etc., and coordinating all matters related to strategic partnerships with foreign institutions to engage in joint projects, student/staff exchanges, and other mutually beneficial academic/research collaborations. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons (Head of Department) to achieve common objectives. 7.7.2 Duties and Functions The duties and responsibilities of the Dean are as under: Explore the government schemes for support in international Projects /Grants/Collaborations/Exchanges programmes, etc. development of new initiatives and strategic partnerships with international industry associations and research institutes. Support strategic partnerships for higher education opportunities and industry/academic partnerships in the areas of integration of international academic staff and students, trainings, development of new programmes, development of teaching and learning strategies or materials, academic curriculum development, scholarship opportunities, promoting student and faculty exchange programmes, research, etc. Provide guidance and services to international students, visiting scholars, and faculty members and support international visits of the University students and faculty members. Assisting and synchronising international activities with overseas government and institutes.

[PAGE 32]
31 Design innovative strategies for advancing international academic cooperation and integrating an international, intercultural, and global dimension into the life of the University. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.8 Dean Internal Quality Assurance Cell 7.8.1 Role of Dean Internal Quality Assurance Cell The Dean Internal Quality Assurance Cell is responsible for planning, guiding, and monitoring quality assurance (QA) and quality enhancement (QE) activities of the University. The Dean shall facilitate the development of programme material, designing relevant templates and ensuring the formulation of quality benchmarks/parameter for various University activities. The Dean shall ensure the maintenance of an institutional database through MIS and design a feedback mechanism to promote quality enhancement measures through the institutionalisation of best practices. In addition to quality assurance measures, the Dean is responsible for coordinating accreditation activities and applying to various national and international ranking frameworks. The Dean shall coordinate with other Departments/Chairpersons to ensure record keeping as per the guidelines of accreditation (NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc.). The Dean shall take appropriate measures to align the goals of members with the overall University vision, mission and values. 7.8.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Dean of Internal Quality Assurance Cell are as under: Ensure development of quality benchmarks/parameters for various academic and administrative activities of the University. Facilitate the creation of a learner-centric environment conducive to quality education and faculty membe participatory teaching and learning process. Design a feedback response mechanism for students, faculty members, parents, and other stakeholders on quality-related institutional processes. Analyse the feedback responses and suggest corrective action thereon to maintain quality and transparency within the organisation.

[PAGE 33]
32 Ensure dissemination of information on various quality parameters of higher education to all Skill Departments of the University. Ensure documentation of the various programmes/activities leading to quality improvement. Act as a nodal agency of the University for coordinating quality-related activities, including adoption and dissemination of best practices, ISO certification, etc. Ensure development and maintenance of institutional database through MIS for the purpose of maintaining/enhancing the institutional quality. Overall coordination for the development of lesson plans for all programmes across Skill Faculties. Develop templates for lesson plan and course file for all the programmes. Coordinate work related visits of NAAC and other accrediting bodies. Ensure preparation of the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) as per guidelines and parameters of NAAC, to be submitted to NAAC and to take similar action for other assessment and ranking bodies Identify and apply for various reputed national and international ranking frameworks such as NIRF, QS ranking, etc. and improve on the quality parameters required to improve the overall ranking Ensure records are maintained as per the guidelines for accreditation NAAC and NBA, etc. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Create KRAs and career pathways for incharges of Quality & Standardisation Audit, and Accreditation (NAAC/NBA) and Ranking (NIRF) Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Make budgetary provisions with approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.9 Dean Pedagogy & Capacity Building 7.9.1 Role of Dean Pedagogy & Capacity Building The Dean of Pedagogy is responsible for developing the pedagogy policy and competency frameworks to build focus on developing pedagogy that enhances skill-based learning

[PAGE 34]
33 aligned with outcomes and job roles consequently impacting the student experience for current and emerging roles. The Dean shall promote the adoption of research informed pedagogy based on international best practices and support Skill Faculties in designing outcome-based curriculum. The Dean of Pedagogy shall facilitate the incorporation of outcome-based MOOCs in all programmes of the University. The Dean is also responsible for the capacity building of faculty members in outcome-based teaching processes and pedagogical tools through workshops and trainings. The Dean shall be a part of the BOS and ensure an outstanding, student-centred learner experience. The Dean shall facilitate the creation of required Qualification Packs and National Operational Standards for any new programmes and also the mapping and designing of programmes as per NSQF, UGC, AICTE and other regulatory bodies. The Dean shall work closely with the Dean Academics and other Deans/Chairpersons to improve the overall student learning experience. The Dean shall take appropriate measures to align the goals of members with the overall University vision, mission and values. 7.9.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Dean Pedagogy & Capacity Building are as under: Develop pedagogy policy and competency framework for human resources and Departments of the University. Interact with other skill universities and MSDE to revise policies and procedures on curriculum and pedagogy. To be involved in different BOS of University and help Skill Faculties to develop pedagogical tools for the teaching and training of new programmes. Identify relevant strategies and pedagogy, including online educational offerings through technology-based means, i.e., MOOCs and/or Open Education Resources (OERs) for outcome-based learning. Facilitate Skill Departments to design outcome-based curriculum, content and evaluative tools in a way that is relevant to students, aligning with Industry needs. Conduct periodic audits in consultation with the other Deans/Chairpersons for necessary compliance as per the pedagogy policy and highlight any gaps. Interact regularly with the Skill Faculties to identify the learning outcomes of each programme and evaluate the same after interacting with all stakeholders. Support the Skill Faculties in recruitment and selection process of the faculty members to evaluate their teaching and pedagogical skills. Ensure orientation of the new staff members.

[PAGE 35]
34 Support in the development of faculty members as per the pedagogical policy and competency framework. Support the University in planning, preparation and development of the following capacity resources: o Infrastructure o Human resources o Policy and programme Recommend external trainings for faculty members to enhance their capabilities. Support in the training and development of faculty members in outcome-based teaching- learning process for their continuous improvement. Support in organizing workshops for the staff members on pedagogy. Facilitate ToT/ToA/Training of SMEs and other events and ensure proper manualization/documentation is done as per national and international standards. research such as administrative procedures, financial procedures and legal implications, professional ethics/code of conduct of the University etc. Ensure effectiveness of training are monitored and reported to the University. Articulate effective instructional strategies for capacity building. Design the common structure for online modules and facilitate online content development for all Skill Faculties. Facilitate the incorporation of outcome-based MOOCs in all programmes of the University as per UGC guidelines and NEP. Facilitate the establishment of the studio and develop the MOOCs relevant to programmes of the University. Support Skill Faculties in development of digital and online pedagogical tools for effective teaching-learning process. Support in the development of digital and online programmes for faculty members and other staff of the University. Facilitate and support in creating the required Qualification Packs and National Operational Standards for any new programmes in consultation with the industry. Support Skill Faculties in mapping and designing of Short-term programmes, long-term programmes, RPL etc.

[PAGE 36]
35 Facilitate the mapping and designing of progammes as per NSQF, UGC, AICTE and other regulatory bodies. Facilitate industry consultations and meetings for industry specific inputs to finalise the course curriculum under programmes for all Skill Faculties. Create KRAs and career pathways for incharges of Pedagogy; Capacity Building, Training/Conferences/FDPs/workshops; MOOCS; and NSQF Alignment & Curriculum Development, etc. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions with the approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.10 Director of Recognition of Prior Learning Cell (RPL) Formulating & regulating procedures, policy making, guidelines & framework for conducting RPL programmes Facilitate in identification of industry needs for conducting RPL Facilitate in conducting competency mapping of the industry employees interested in undergoing RPL. Support skill faculties in mapping and designing of RPL programme. Facilitate the mapping and designing of RPL progammes as per NSQF, UGC, AICTE and other regulatory bodies. Facilitate industry consultations and meetings for industry specific inputs to finalise the bridge course curriculum under RPL programmes for all skill faculties. Facilitate ToT/ToA/Training of SMEs and other events and ensure proper manualization/ documentation is done as per national and international standards. Support in Monitoring and evaluation frameworks in coordination with the Project guidelines & structure Ensure Independent auditing of the entire RPL process & procedures as per the said parameters Facilitate in Disseminating results in terms of the deliverables of the overall concept

[PAGE 37]
36 Create KRAs and career pathways for programme manager, Academic Incharge and any other members of the cell. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.11 Dean of Strategic Centres 7.11.1 Role of Dean Strategic Centres The Dean of Strategic Centres is responsible for establishing various centres for innovation, entrepreneurship, promoting culture and Lok Kala and for monitoring employability in the state of Haryana in coordination with various academic/research associations and industries. The Dean shall facilitate research activities in the aforementioned areas. The Dean shall also provide support to organise regular events and activities to motivate the faculty members for publications in research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The Dean is responsible to support and encourage mutually beneficial innovation activities with the industry. The Dean shall promote entrepreneurship development and study various state/central schemes in the field of entrepreneurship to support student ventures. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives of the University and accreditation and ranking bodies. 7.11.2 Duties and Functions Develop state of the art infrastructure and support Skill Faculties for the Centre for Excellence for Innovative Leadership and Entrepreneurship. Identify a team of SMEs with the support of Skill Faculties to implement the Centre of innovative leadership and entrepreneurship in the University. Facilitate an ecosystem for students and faculty members to undertake collaborative and innovative entrepreneurial projects. Ensure conduct of skill gap, employability and impact assessment studies in the priority sectors of the University with relevant data collection and analytics systems Support in promotion and revival of various traditional arts and crafts practiced in the state of Haryana.

[PAGE 38]
37 Facilitate research in innovative and upcoming fields and organise expert sessions of eminent professionals on innovation to motivate the students and faculty members of the University. Analyse the latest practices in research and training in the field of entrepreneurship and create a network with various institutes and organisations to support entrepreneurship training in the University. Facilitate in creating an incubation centre with the support of companies/organisation to encourage spirit of entrepreneurship. Study various schemes being launched by state and central government organisation in the field of entrepreneurship to assist budding entrepreneurs from various programmes to create a successful business model with seed funding. Facilitate in organising regular events and activities to motivate the faculty members for publications in research, innovation and entrepreneurship. Facilitate the preparation and maintenance of various grant applications, records, reports, and files related to activities, performance, and outcomes. Facilitate coordination between faculty members, staff, administration, industry, and governmental agencies. advisory groups. Ensure strategic connections with all stakeholders. Proactively encourage technology development activities and create various schemes to support faculty members and in filing for patents and publications including Ph.D. Programmes. Create KRAs and career pathways for their team members. Make budgetary provisions with the approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 39]
38 7.12 -officio member and Vice-Chairman of the following Committees: Youth Welfare Committee National Service Scheme Committee Sports Council Training and Placement Council 7.12.1 Role of Dean Students Welfare Dean Student Welfare is responsible for the overall well-being of the University students by coordinating co-curricular, cultural, and other youth welfare/engagement activities, on and off-campus. The duties of the Dean include facilitation of student outreach programmes, societies/committees, various district, state, national and international level competitions as well as formulation and implementation of a mentoring policy among many others. The Dean shall provide support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. The Dean shall collaboratively work with other Chairpersons to achieve common objectives. 7.12.2 Duties and Functions The duties and responsibilities of the Dean shall be as under: Overall coordination for the well-being of the University students - social, moral, emotional, etc. Explore the government schemes related to student welfare and support the various student/youth activities. Seek periodic feedback from students, faculty members, Chairpersons and other stakeholders and propose corrective action as appropriate. Overall coordination of various social initiatives and programmes such as adopting a village, providing free education, organizing awareness campaigns, etc., for the greater benefit of the society. Develop and promote social scholarship/sponsorship schemes for the students in need. Plan a budget and facilitate the inter and intra University competitions at district, state, national and international level. Develop a mentoring policy and implement mentor-mentee programmes across all Skill Faculties.

[PAGE 40]
39 Establish the Directorate of Youth Welfare to organise and promote various youth welfare activities. Coordinate co-curricular and cultural activities of the students in the University Campus. Design and develop innovative ideas and strategies for the holistic development of University students. Establishment and overall coordination of the NCC and NSS wing and their activities of the students. Overall coordination of various committees, clubs, and societies to provide a platform for students to collaboratively explore their diverse interests and learn as part of the community. Create KRAs and career pathways for Incharges of Student Outreach Programmes & Competitions; Student Engagement Programme (Cultural Activities) & Mentoring; and Clubs & Societies. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Operate the accounts of the funds allocated to the Students/Youth Welfare Department for co-curricular activities of the University students in the Campus. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.13 Director of Sports 7.13.1 Role of the Director of Sports The Director of Sports is responsible for providing effective leadership, direction, and support to ensure the physical wellbeing of students, coordinating with other Departments to organise activities related to sports, like the annual sports day, and promoting the participation of students and staff members in the same. The Director shall identify the human resource and equipment needs of the Department, keeping in mind the University health and safety guidelines. The Director shall also take appropriate measures to align the goals of the members with the overall University vision, mission and values.

[PAGE 41]
40 7.13.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Director of Sports are as under: overall incharge of the sports complex of the University Ensure the physical welfare and coordinate sports activities of the students in the University campus. Identify suitable human resources and equipping needs for the Department as per the sports calendar and student aspirations. Ensure that all infrastructure and equipment are fit for purpose and used in accordance with health and safety guidelines. Plan and publicise the sports programme calendar for the term/year ahead in consultation with the PRO. Maintain a record of all sports equipment provided by the University. Monitor the work of the coaches and staff as per their role. Coordinate with other Departments to organise annual sports day and other sports events in the University campus. Maintain a record of zonal, district, state, national, international events, and ensure Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.14 Chairperson 7.14.1 Role of Chairpersons The Chairperson is required to lead, manage and develop their respective Skill Department to ensure it achieves the highest possible standards of excellence in all its activities. The

[PAGE 42]
41 Chairperson are required to exercise leadership, demonstrate vision, and empower faculty members and staff to deliver the agreed Departmental strategy within the Skill Faculty. The Chairperson shall ensure all relevant University policies are applied in all facets of the working of the Skill Department. The Chairperson shall ensure that the overall vision, mission and values of their respective Skill Department is aligned with the vision, mission and values of the University. 7.14.2 Duties and Functions The duties and functions of the Chairperson, shall be as under: pedagogy, effective teaching-learning, hands on practice in laboratories, OJT (On Job Training), workshops, mentoring etc. in tune with NSQF. Hold meetings of the Staff Council at regular intervals, give effect to its decisions, and maintain record thereof. Dispose of, promptly and expeditiously, all proposals/requests put up by the faculty members in the manner required and/or prescribed. Draw time-table for teaching and practical work well in time and allot teaching work-load to the teachers according to approved norms of the University. Exercise effective control over teaching schedule and ensure regular class teaching/OJT, without any unauthorized absence and indifference. Convene meetings of Board(s) of Studies (BOS), for long-term and short-term programmes, as and when required, get their business transacted well in time, and maintain records thereof. Provide necessary support for timely conduct of examinations and prompt evaluation work in respect of the programmes offered. Facilitate quick processing and submission of research proposals by the faculty members and hassle-free subsequent execution of research projects on approval. Propose actions and plans for achieving academic excellence and enhance faculty Promote healthy work culture in the Department, and conduct oneself in a just and fair manner, in the interest of overall academic growth. Maintain effective liaison with the students in order to learn and redress their grievances and effectively draw them into the teaching learning activities of the Department. Suggest and organize Seminar/Workshops/Conferences on the topics of contemporary importance.

[PAGE 43]
42 basis. Nominate spokesperson for each cell for ex. NSQF cell, OJT cell, Grievance cell etc. Identify the requirement of adjunct faculty, invite and share suitable profiles to the Dean of Skill Faculty as and when required. Perform all such functions as are laid down in the Statutes, Ordinances, and rules of the University, or those laid down by the University Authorities. Ensure programmes are NSQF aligned in coordination with the NSQF Cell at the Skill Faculty level. Ensure short term programmes are conducted in the ratio 1:4 (Long-term: Short term) in consultation with the Incharge Short-Term Programmes of the University and the Corporate Relations and Engagement cell. skill programmes in skill department. Implementation of the concept of integrated qualifications into degree programmes for all skill programmes offered by the skill department For all long-term and short-term programmes: Academic and resource planning Resource allocation Develop Academic Resources Prepare DPR for new programmes Develop Qualification files for approval of NSQC Organise FDP for faculty members and instructors Laboratory and equipment planning for faculty members Monitor academic progress of students and faculty members Prepare Academic Calendar Ensure conduct of OJT as per the DPR, laid down guidelines/SOP in coordination with OJT Cell of the University and the Corporate Relations and Engagement cell. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time

[PAGE 44]
43 7.15 Other Teaching and Skilling Staff 7.15.1 Programme Coordinator Overall coordination with teaching and non-teaching staff pertaining to all aspects of execution of the programme. Identify job roles along with corresponding theory curriculum and relevant OJT areas, and finalise appropriate schedules for each component in coordination with the faculty members, Skill Instructor, OJT coordinator, and industry partner. Ensure preparation of time table and OJT schedule for each programme in coordination with the faculty members, Skill Instructor, OJT coordinator, and industry partner. Identify relevant qualifications pertaining to respective job roles, and corresponding mapping with OJT. Define semester-wise learning outcomes for each OJT area and curriculum component, in coordination with the faculty members, Skill Instructor, OJT coordinator, and industry partner. Monitor attendance of students and faculty on weekly basis and report non-compliances to the respective Chairperson/Dean of Skill Faculty. Ensure collection of regular feedback in coordination with the IQAC, for subsequent identification of action points to facilitate continuous programme quality improvement. Coordinate the conduct of academic audits of programmes to evaluate status of curriculum mapping to job roles, NSQF alignment of programme, and market relevance of programmes run by the University. Ensure compliance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for effective and efficient delivery of programmes. Prepare classroom allotment plan for efficient space management within the University campus. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the Dean/Chairperson from time to time

[PAGE 45]
44 7.15.2 Faculty Member Contribute towards development of pedagogy for respective programmes within the Skill Faculty, and for cross-functional knowledge sharing across different Skill Faculties. Design and develop curriculum for the programmes in consultation with the programme coordinator and Chairperson of the skill department. Monitor the academic progress of the students on a regular basis. Provide instructions to the students regarding discipline and decorum to be maintained in the University. Provide the necessary study material to the students in conformance with the prescribed mode of delivery, viz. print/digital, as applicable. Deliver all academic content prescribed for the respective programmes by the University. Provide necessary instructions, supervision, and guidance to students for successful completion of projects required to be completed as part of the programme. Develop and update relevant academic resources and case studies for addition to the content administered to students during the programme. Create new project prototypes for inclusion in the programme, as well as assist with implementation of the same. Ensure mapping of classroom curriculum with OJT areas, in consultation with the Programme Coordinator and Skill Instructor. Engage in continuous research and development activities to promote innovation as well as creation and adoption of best practices. Author academic texts and research work for publication in journals, review papers, books, etc. Provide consultancy to industries, with the objective of furthering industry-academia alignment and mutual synergy. Assess the academic work prepared and submitted by students as part of the programme, and provide feedback for quality improvement. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the Dean/Chairperson from time to time. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc.

[PAGE 46]
45 7.15.3 Master Skill Instructor Support the Programme Coordinator in identification of qualifications and mapping of OJT curriculum with the defined job roles. Create Learning Outcomes for the OJT in consultation with the Programme Coordinator and ensure implementation. Coordinate with the Programme Coordinator and the corporate relations and engagement team to understand current industry requirements and expectations. Define the critical processes, create the OJT implementation plan for each programme, in consultation with the concerned Programme Coordinator and Chairperson. Clearly define the division of responsibilities between the Senior Skill Instructor and the Skill Instructors in consultation with the Industry. Support the Senior Skill Instructor and Skill Instructor in enhancing the Skill Sets of students by effective implementation of OJT and supporting them in implementation of mini projects/audit reports in lieu of OJT. Ensure that concerns/challenges (both Skill and Administrative) of the students deployed at OJT location are addressed effectively by the Senior Skill Instructor and Skill Instructor. Escalate issues with the Programme Coordinator where required. Define a framework and matrix to monitor and analyse OJT progress in coordination the Programme Coordinator and ensure timely implementation by the Senior Skill Instructor and Skill instructor. Ensure that the OJT reports of students are checked prepared and presented to the Programme Coordinator by Senior Skill Instructors. Ensure the implementation of assessment as per the OJT schedule and skill pedagogy. Budget planning for manpower, infrastructure for vocational programs (Short Term Courses/out campus programs), planning for skill competitions Planning and development of labratories/Centre for excellence for vocational education and skill competitions. Overall maintenance and update of the records related to Student Skill Matrix Overall coordination of laboratories across skill faculties. Plan for capacity building in line with vision of the university/faculty.

[PAGE 47]
46 Setting KRAs for team members and appraisals for team members. Design and develop qualifications for different job roles. Ensure preparation of DPR and approval from BOS, overall monitoring of academic activities related to Short Term Courses/Vocational programs. Delivery and Execution of Short Term Training Programmes Coordination with Industry for skill trainings/OJT. Undergo Training of Trainer (TOT) and certification provided by the University for the respective programme. Assist the programme coordinators and faculty members for running In-campus programmes. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other jobs assigned by the /Chairperson/Dean /the Competent Authority 7.15.4 Senior Skill Instructor Support the Master Skill Instructor in designing of an OJT schedule as per the academic calendar and inputs of the Industry through the Industry Mentor and Skill instructor. Support the Master Skill Instructor in identifying the relevant practical/OJT component of qualifications and map the OJT curriculum. Coordinate OJT schedule compliance in consultation with the Skill Instructor, Industry Mentor and suggest changes to Master Skill Instructor, if any. Support the Skill Instructor in implementing the OJT assessment schedule. Coordinate the redressal of concerns/challenges of the students deployed at OJT with the Skill Instructor and escalate issues where required with the Master Skill Instructor. Develop an attendance monitoring and warning system in consultation with the Master Skill Instructor and ensure implementation by the Skill Instructor. Undergo Training of Trainer (TOT) and certification provided by the University for the respective programme. Support the Skill Instructor in clarifying doubts of students on OJT processes. Support the Master Skill Instructor in conduct of the OJT Assessment as per the schedule.

[PAGE 48]
47 Skill matrix identification. Identification and development/delivery of qualifications for various job roles including DPRs and approval from statutory bodies. Coordination with faculty and industry for planning/scheduling OJT (STC/In campus/Out campus programs) Design and develop qualifications for different job roles. Delivery and Execution of Short Term Training Programmes Planning and setup of the required infrastructure in the department for conducting STC/In Campus/Out Campus programs/skill competitions Coordination for operationalizing and maintenance of group of Laboratories as assigned by the master skill instructor. Teaching skill courses in respective programme. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other jobs assigned by the Chairperson/ Dean/ the Competent Authority 7.15.5 Skill Instructor Understand and learn the skill needs of each job role of the sector where he/she is employed. Ensure on ground orientation of students about the Industry and the scope of work during OJT. Explain the Dos and Donts of the OJT and explain the OJT guidelines to students. Ensure signing of the OJT undertaking by all students before commencement. Assist Students in learning the Skill sets during the OJT in coordination with the Industry Skill Mentor. Ensure Implementation of the OJT schedule and assist them in learning the skill sets in coordination with the Industry Mentor.

[PAGE 49]
48 Provide necessary instructions to students on their conduct and safety at the OJT location to avoid any conflicts. Maintain the attendance records of students, notify students and the Senior Skill Instructor in case of low attendance. Conduct continuous evaluation and maintain a record of OJT assessments, reports and furnish the same to the Senior Skill Instructor. the same. Provide regular feedback to students on their performance, in consultation with the Industry Mentor. Communicate with the students/University and industry to understand their requirements and expectations. Undergo Training of Trainer (TOT) and certification provided by the University for the respective programme. Design and develop qualifications for different job roles. Identification of skill attributes to be developed during the skill training /OJT. Execution of OJT as per schedule. Continuous and comprehensive evaluation of skilling & training Designing and development of contents of study material for vocational programs (Long- term/Short term duration). Identification and development of industries-oriented projects. Coordination with industries and skill faculty. Delivery and Execution of Short Term Training Programmes Conducting labs for out campus/in campus programs and ensuring operation and maintenance of at least one laboratory as assigned by the master skill instructor and senior skill instructor. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc.

[PAGE 50]
49 Carry out any other jobs assigned by the Chairperson/ Dean/the Competent Authority 7.15.6 Laboratory Assistant Prepare the laboratory for conduct of Laboratory Tests as per the schedule given for the programme by the Programme Coordinator/Teaching Faculty. Conduct laboratory tests as per the defined schedule and ensure the correct technical use of equipment. Orient students with the laboratory functioning rules, policies, and guidelines for laboratory equipment use. Support Skill Faculty teaching staff in conduct of laboratory sessions, and give technical advice to staff and students. Prepare Daily Quality Control Check of Laboratory Equipment. Interpret Results based on Lab records, e.g. for students' practical sessions, tracking methods, and results. Be capable to suggest latest laboratory equipment to the teaching staff. Support individual students on conduct of practical mini laboratory -based projects. Ensure timely maintenance and upkeep of Laboratory Equipment by the Lab Attendant. Ensure any damaged/defective equipment is repaired within the shortest possible time after intimation to the Programme Coordinator. Ensure Cleanliness and hygiene of the laboratory. Ensure that all health and safety procedures are understood and followed correctly and provide help in case of any injury or accident. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other jobs assigned by the Chairperson/Dean/ the Competent Authority 7.15.7 Laboratory Attendant Maintain Daily Cleanliness of the laboratory. Ensure cleanliness and upkeep of all laboratory equipment and inform the Laboratory Assistant of any problems well in time. Prepare equipment and tools before lessons for the final check by the Laboratory Assistant. Carry out trial run of all equipment in consultation with the Laboratory Assistant.

[PAGE 51]
50 Ensure the safety and security of students. Ensure correct storage and maintain of all tools/equipment. Ensure periodic stock check of equipment in coordination with the Laboratory assistant. Ensure a safe environment for staff and students and provide help in case of any injury or accident. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other jobs assigned by the Chairperson/ Dean/ the Competent Authority 7.15.8 Librarian Supervise and co-ordinate the work of the University Library. Provide instructions to all students in the use of the Library. Plan book acquisition programme of the library and select books for order based on suggestions by faculty members. Coordinate correspondence relating to financial matters. Lay down the vision, mission, objectives, and broad policies of the library in consultation with University administration and academic staff. Coordinate the preparation of library budget, procedures, schedules, etc. Ensure quality resources and spaces are available to students to support their learning at the University at all times. quality programme development and reviews, and complete resource basis for effective delivery of programmes. Manage and support the provision of reading lists and allocate length of loans. Create, update, and manage electronic and printed information resources. Coordinate and deliver information and digital literacy sessions to students, researchers and staff. Respond to any enquiries from students and staff. Interact with the academic community of the University in order to determine their requirements of reading materials, and acquire the same for the library. Support the research and publication mission of the University by supporting researchers. Develop programme of library management for improving the efficiency of the Library. Develop a vision to ensure that the University is well prepared to remain effective in the evolving global trends in higher education and skill development.

[PAGE 52]
51 Participate in professional groups or networks. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other jobs assigned by the Chairperson/Dean/ the Competent Authority 7.16 Chief Warden 7.16.1 Role of Chief Warden The Chief Warden is responsible for the general welfare of the students residing in the campus, including matters of health, sanitation, and maintenance of decorum. The Chief Warden shall develop policies related hostel allotment, emergency response and evacuation plans, and constitute committees to promote and maintain ragging and bullying free hostel. The Chief Warden shall also maintain regular contact with hostel wardens and ensure record keeping. The Chief Warden shall coordinate with other Departments and the University administration, whenever required. The Chief Warden shall also take appropriate measures to train the hostel staff and align their goals with the overall University vision, mission and values. 7.16.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Chief Warden are as under: Ensure the health, hygiene and general welfare of the students residing in the campus and attend to all matters of heath, sickness, diet, sanitation and cleanliness in accordance with laid down University norms. Ensure that the students concerned observe the rules framed for their guidance and maintenance of decorum as per the Code of Conduct. Identify the training needs of the hostel staff and provide trainings on health, hygiene etc. Ensure the constitution of hostel committees in all hostels. Develop plans to manage the response to incidents and emergencies relating to health, safety and general wellbeing of students and to liaise effectively with the wardens on campus and support services, where appropriate. Develop policy and guidelines to support the hostel admission process of new students. Provide relevant information about the students boarding and lodging, as and when required. Develop evacuation plans and take part in implementation of fire drills, crime prevention and health & safety awareness initiatives.

[PAGE 53]
52 Report, maintain a record of and respond to on-site emergencies in a timely manner, if required. Ensure bullying & ragging free hostels. Conduct surprise rounds of the hostels including surprise checks of the hostels. Establish and maintain appropriate social contact with hostel wardens and students. Ensure that every hostel warden maintains an up-to-date register containing information relating to the residence of its students and shall submit it to the University. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.17 Coordinator Government Guidelines / Schemes / Projects & Applying to Regulatory Bodies Manage correspondence with various statutory government organizations like MSDE, SDIT, UGC, AICTE, etc. to seek any information/guidelines/rules related to academic matters of the University, etc. Monitor state and central government orders and directions on education and skilling to ensure all compliances are met. Share all mandatory guidelines of the government with all stake holders in the University. Apply for awards for University and statutory approvals for any programme/projects. Provide information to the various statutory bodies like MOE, SDIT, UGC, AICTE, etc., regarding the University and its programmes, if required. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time

[PAGE 54]
53 7.18 Head of Student Grievance Redressal Cell/Committee 7.18.1 Role of the Head of Grievance Redressal Cell/Committee The Head of the Grievance Redressal Cell/Committee is responsible for developing a mechanism, as per the directions of the UGC, to ensure and provide opportunities for the redressal of grievances of students of the University. The Head shall coordinate with the other Chairpersons to provide timely resolution of all grievances received by the Cell. The Head shall indiscriminately perform her/his duties and provide support to members, values of the University. 7.18.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Head are as under: Support the University in creating a framework for grievance redressal in the University. Analyse the grievances received on the portal/email and share them with the relevant staff/Department seeking clarity and inputs on the raised grievances. Ensure grievances are resolved promptly, indiscriminately, and in complete confidentiality within the defined timeframe. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.19 Proctor 7.19.1 Role of Proctor The Proctor shall be responsible to the Vice Chancellor and shall assist him in the matters concerning discipline among students in the University, both on campus and during their OJT. Wherever necessary, the Proctor shall evaluate acts of indiscipline and related facts, recommending corrective measures. The Proctor shall cooperate with other Departments, take appropriate steps to ensure adherence to the University Code of Conduct, and prevent any acts of indiscipline.

[PAGE 55]
54 The Proctor shall constitute respective committees and provide effective leadership and support to members, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision, mission and values of the University. 7.19.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Proctor are as under: Monitor the disciplinary climate prevailing in the student community of the University in University campus as well as Industry during OJT. Take preventive steps such as issue of notices, warnings, instructions regulating certain acts, and other arrangements for the purpose of forestalling acts of individual or collective indiscipline. Independently collect relevant facts about the incidents of indiscipline, evaluate the evidences and to decide/recommend the quantum of punishment to be imposed on the erring student(s) wherever considered necessary. The Proctor may place the relevant information before the Vice Chancellor or to Proctorial Board for their decision. Issue all orders relating to disciplinary proceedings against students as per the University Code of Conduct. Maintain liaison with the District Administration in matters regarding the Law-and-Order situation on the University Campus. Ensure the constitution of committees such as anti-ragging, discipline, etc. Ensure demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time

[PAGE 56]
55 7.20 Warden Support the Chief warden to look after the general administration, mess, common room, health and recreational facilities, and maintenance and sanitation. Allotment of hostel rooms and guest rooms and their overall supervision. Maintenance of resident students register, and the guest room register. Responsible for the overall security of the hostel and will coordinate his/her responsibility with the Security Officer of the University. Periodically verify the furniture and fittings of the hostel with the assistance of the Caretaker and take action for their repairs/replacement or for obtaining additional furniture. Look after the common room and the sports and cultural programmes of the hostel and will Ensure that residents abide by the norms of the hostel. He/she will report to the Chief Warden all relevant cases of indiscipline, and violation of rules. The Warden is authorized to impose fines on a resident student in case of a misdemeanor. Supervise the work of the sanitation staff, keep a control over their attendance and maintain the Attendance Register. Supervise the functioning of the mess and the working of the Mess Managers/Supervisors, Cooks and Helpers under his/her charge. Conduct regular inspection of the kitchen room and the dining hall, especially when the residents take their meals. Will enforce discipline and decorum in the dining hall. Will supervise the system of purchases of mess stores, provision etc. Ensure the correctness of receipts and issues of mess stores, crockery etc. and of the stock balance and will attest all entries in the relevant stock register. Will check the valuation of the closing stock. Will ensure that stores are kept in good and efficient condition. Check and certify the bills received from suppliers with reference to the stock register. Will investigate cases of shortage/excess of stores. Arrange disposal of empties, crockery etc. and ensure depositing of sale proceeds in the appropriate head of account. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc.

[PAGE 57]
56 Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.21 Incharge Accreditation (NAAC/NBA) Ensure building operational and data management structures for the purpose of obtaining and maintaining recognised accreditations and ranking of NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Collaborate with Skill Faculties and committees to develop and update policies and procedures relevant to NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. update reporting system to reflect current requirement of accreditation and ranking bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Organize workshops for the Nodal officer on the activities related to NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Ensure strategic planning processes and outcomes meet NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. requirements. Facilitate the visit of NAAC, NBA, NIRF officials to the University. Overall supervision of the assigned staff/committees on accreditation and rankings - NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Liaison with UGC, and Ministry of Higher Education for all accreditation, NIRF related policy matters. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Ensure records are maintained as per the guidelines for accreditation NAAC, NBA, and NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.22 Incharge Alumni Relations Ensure registration of the Alumni Association of the University. Support training and Internship programmes through University Alumni connect. Leverage the alumni network to strengthen existing programmes. Connect with alumni to enhance the image of SVSU and furthering its outreach. Coordinate with the alumni association and develop the alumni portal to engage with the alumni community for various University initiatives.

[PAGE 58]
57 Conduct alumni feedback and propose corrective action as appropriate. Inviting the alumni for alumni meets/talks, student interactions, expert sessions, networking events, etc. Manage the alumni endowment funds to support academically bright and financially deserving students who want to pursue vocational education. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.23 Incharge Capacity Building, Training/Conferences/FDPs/workshops Prescribe the framework, structure and content of training programme to be organized at University level by identifying the development needs of staff members/Departments. Conduct training of trainers (ToT) as per the requirement of various Departments of the University. Create a module (both digital and print) for training of trainers (ToT) on skill levels, teaching methodology, MOOCs, and latest practices. Train staff members or conduct workshops for the capacity building of staff/Department/Skill Faculties by understanding their individual development needs and developing their individual development plan. Provide training in miscellaneous aspects in addition to teaching and research such as administrative procedures, financial procedures and legal implications, professional ethics/code of conduct of the University etc. Enhance the capability of staff within their current roles. Implement the competency framework for faculty members. Track and monitor training per person for its effectiveness and submit periodic reports to the University Support faculty members and staff in identifying and achieving career development and personal growth goals in line with University objectives. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress.

[PAGE 59]
58 Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.24 Incharge Centre of Excellence Interact and invite various industries, start-ups and trade associations to work and establish their Centres for Excellence in the University. Monitor changes in laws, regulations, and technology that may affect Centre operations. Facilitate the daily functions, operations, projects, and activities of the Centre of Excellence, including workforce research, partnership development, and strategic planning. Prepare and maintain various grant applications, records, reports, and files related to activities, performance, and outcomes. administration, industry, and governmental agencies. Attend and participate/make presentations in professional group meetings and various committees and advisory groups. Stay informed about new trends and innovations related to Centre of Excellence programmes, projects, and services. connections with all stakeholders. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.25 Incharge Clubs, Committees & Societies Constitute and develop a framework for setting up of clubs and societies by students to promote innovation and their holistic development. Develop a framework for setting up of clubs and societies by students to promote innovation and their holistic development. Support students to plan and execute various projects and activities. Organise hobby classes, summer workshops etc. as a part of youth welfare activities.

[PAGE 60]
59 Coordinate with society heads to ensure effective execution of activities. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.26 Incharge Employability & Livelihood Cell Strategise and ensure successful placements for the graduating students through a robust campus recruitment process. Facilitate internships and live projects for the students across Skill Faculties based on programme objectives. Manage and support student career services, including career counselling, grooming and helping students for interviews, CV preparation, LinkedIn profiles, etc. Work with key stakeholders including alumni, faculty members, administration, marketing & admissions teams to achieve both career services and larger institutional objectives. Create a network with industry HR community, work with senior professionals in HR and functional leaders to support placements of University students. Create new placement, partner-based placement, and manage existing placement partners. Organise and conduct industry engagement activities such as career counselling lectures, Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.27 Incharge Industry Integration Support the University in interacting with the Industries for creating linkages for the off- campus and on-campus programmes conducted by the University.

[PAGE 61]
60 Serve as a single point of contact of University for the organizations on various industry- University initiatives like OJT, internships etc. programmes. Conduct industry research to identify future job trends to understand the job roles relevant for each industry for conduct of training. Support visits of faculty members to industry for study and discussions on industrial processes, capabilities, job roles, project design, etc. Coordinate the on-the-job training of students in industries with the Skill Faculties. Interact with the industry periodically as laid down to ensure any issues related to the MOU or otherwise are addressed in a timely fashion. Renewal of all MoU with various industry partners as per the laid down timelines in the SOP. Create KRAs for team members. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.28 Incharge Innovation Encourage students to work on new ideas, modules, projects, and promote creative thoughts focussed on reshaping skill education to harness the full potential of students. Make diligent efforts in understanding the issues/problems of the industry and propose innovative skill projects in due consultation with industries. Support and encourage Skill Faculties to undertake innovative live student project. Promote impactful research in innovative and upcoming fields and organise expert sessions of eminent professionals on innovation to motivate the students and faculty members of the University. Encourage innovation activities in the University and industry partners for mutually beneficial linkages and act as a catalyst and facilitator. Create an ecosystem that facilitates various stakeholders on all aspects of innovation process.

[PAGE 62]
61 Promote innovative thinking, facilitate and provide various incentives for activities that benefit various stakeholders and manage the growth of innovation in the skill ecosystem. Organise innovation-based exhibitions and events like hackathons, etc. Explore the new opportunities for research mapped with employability within the state and nation. Initiating programmes on innovative processes and solutions. Support faculty members and students in the registration for and awarding of patents. Establish Innovations Laboratories. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.29 Incharge MOOCs Frame and design the MOOCs policy of the University Develop transfer of MOOCs credits policy. Establish the studio and develop the MOOCs relevant to programmes of the University. Suggesting and ensuring the MOOCs to be incorporated in all programmes of the University as per UGC guidelines and NEP. Create budgets and manage finances for projects. Ensure successful student sign-ups, engagement, and completion of the MOOCs by coordinating with the nodal officer of the Skill Departments. Conduct competitive research to understand the MOOCs market in general. Partner with institutions/organizations to conduct sessions/workshops to create awareness about MOOCs. Conduct training to staff and students for utilizing the MOOCs facility. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress.

[PAGE 63]
62 Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.30 Incharge NSQF Alignment & Curriculum Development Design policies and framework for NSQF alignment of programmes for all Skill Faculties. Facilitate and finalise outcome-based curriculum for OJT in consultation with Incharge Pedagogy Department. Train staff of each Skill Faculty on the development and implementation of curricula to meet academic, industry, and NSQF standards. Support the Skill Faculties in creating the required Qualification Packs and National Operational Standards for any new programmes being commenced in consultation with the industry. Lead a collaborative curriculum development process aligned with the Industry. Conduct industry consultations and meetings for industry specific inputs to finalise the course curriculum under programmes for all Skill Faculties. Ensure regular updation and alignment of existing programmes as per NSQF. Facilitate the Skill Faculties in preparation of DPR for new programme as per NSQF. Facilitate and finalise qualification files for approval of NSQC. Interact regularly with the Coordinator Government Guidelines/Schemes/Projects & Applying to Regulatory Bodies for NSQF related matters. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.31 Incharge OJT Coordination pedagogy, effective teaching-learning, hands on practice in laboratories, OJT (On Job Training), workshops, mentoring etc. in tune with NSQF.

[PAGE 64]
63 Effective implementati its implementation in OJT diary/digital platform and linking its outcome to the skills gained by the students (preparation of skill matrix). Ensure that the concerns/challenges of the students deployed at OJT are addressed. Define the critical processes of OJT with respect to the programme and in proper consultation with the concerned Dean/Programme Coordinator. Co-ordinate OJT planning and compliance. Ensure monitoring and analysis of OJT progress and suggest improvements. Define and ensure compliance of learning outcome as per industry demand are met. Ensure that the OJT reports of students are prepared and presented by the OJT coordinators of Skill Faculties. Monitor the co-ordination of OJT planning and progress. Design methodology for continuous and comprehensive evaluation of OJT. Identification of Skill Attributes to be developed during the programme. Coordinate with Skill Departments, industry mentors and Industry Integration Department for OJT progress mapping. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.32 Incharge Pedagogy Implementation of pedagogy policy in all the Skill Departments for all programmes of the University. Developing outcome-based pedagogy for the evaluation of all programmes including OJT. Training on pedagogy to all the staff members of the University. Train staff members to develop pedagogy suitable for vocational education, experiential learning and outcome based. Organising workshop for the staff members on pedagogy.

[PAGE 65]
64 Implementation of the pedagogy as per the pedagogy policy in a way that is relevant to students, aligning with Industry needs and outcome based. Create processes to assess teaching methods being used by various Skill Faculties and faculty members. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress and ranking. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.33 Incharge Research & Consultancy Coordinate the PhD programme as per PhD Ordinance and other research activities related to PhD programmes. Coordinate with all Skill Faculties in reference to all PhD programmes and research activities. Coordinate and facilitate research grants, seed money, and patents. Coordinate the launch of PhD programmes including admissions, brochures, defining programme guidelines and SOPs, etc. Formulate guidelines to ensure the conduct of quality research and research publication in the University. Create and maintain database regarding research expertise, publications, and sponsored research projects of faculty members. Motivate and facilitate faculty members to conduct research, consultancy, and/or project work. Guide researchers to connect with industries. Communicating the consultancy requirements from Industries/institutions to the concerned Skill Faculties. Support research scholars in attending research seminars, conferences, and workshops. Coordinate with industry mentors or research scholars for their inputs and to know the progress of research scholars. Ensure the availability of research facilities in the University for research scholars. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives.

[PAGE 66]
65 Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.34 Incharge Short-Term Programmes Coordinate with Skill Departments for running short term training programmes. Ensure signing of MoUs with industry partners to run short-term programmes. Prepare status reports and progress report for all short-term programmes. Ensure timely launch of the short-term programmes in coordination with Skill Faculties. Develop Qualification files for approval of NSQC for short term programmes. Finalise course content and study material for short-term programmes in coordination with Skill Faculties. Finalise course content and pedagogy for OJT and practical components of the programmes, in coordination with Skill Faculties. Support curriculum development and DPR preparation and acquire approval from the BOS and Skill Council. Finalise the teaching pedagogy and evaluation strategies for short-term programmes. Identify relevant learning resources. Finalise infrastructure and laboratory facilities for practical programme components. Coordinate the recruitment of trainers and evaluators for short-term programmes. Conduct feasibility study of existing short-term programmes based on industry requirements. Identify and suggest innovative demand based short-term training programmes in coordination with industry partners and communicating to the relevant Skill Department. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time

[PAGE 67]
66 7.35 Incharge Shri Guru Nanak Dev Centre of Innovative Leadership & Entrepreneurship Implement relevant schemes launched by state and central governments in the field of entrepreneurship to assist budding entrepreneurs from various programmes to create a successful business models with seed funding from various agencies. Align students with start-ups for handholding, mentoring for their ideas to be converted into business models. Organise Entrepreneurship Awareness Programmes (EAPs), camps, and events like Hackathons, etc. Conduct research to identify areas mapping entrepreneurial skills leading to employability, in the district, state, and nation. Implement the latest practices in the field of entrepreneurship. Support the local entrepreneurs by providing them entrepreneurship development training and infrastructure facilities for their upliftment Prepare a calendar of annual activities focussed on leadership and entrepreneurship development. Demonstration of work done through the effectiveness of objectives achieved. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.36 Incharge Skill Internship Cell Formulate policy, guidelines, and procedures for developing internship projects/assignments under each of the skill faculties for in-campus programmes. Facilitate the skill faculties in identifying the areas where internship projects/assignments can be integrated into the various in campus programmes. Develop evaluation matrix for projects/assignments assigned to the students. Motivate students to develop technical knowledge and soft skills in terms of career planning, goal setting Preparation including the training content during internship.

[PAGE 68]
67 Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions with the approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.37 Incharge Student Engagement Programme/Cultural Activities & Mentoring Organising cultural activities such as cultural festivals, youth festivals, foundation day, etc. Organise activities and workshops for the engagement of students in the University campus, in coordination with other committees (sports, clubs/societies). Overall coordination of and participation in zonal, inter-zonal, national and international youth festivals. Implement the mentoring policy and manage the overall implementation of the mentor- mentee programme across all Skill Faculties. Prepare an annual activity calendar in coordination with the Chief Warden, Proctor, and the Academics team. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.38 Incharge Student Outreach Programme & Competitions Organise various social initiatives and programmes such as adopting a village, providing free education, organizing awareness campaigns, etc., for the greater benefit of the society. Coordinate campus tours and visits for community agencies. Conduct meetings, conferences, and special events related to student outreach. Facilitate a coordinated approach to outreach activities on behalf of the Government Administrative Authorities.

[PAGE 69]
68 Organise trainings and schedule activities to prepare students for participation in competitions inside and outside the University at district, state, national and international levels. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.39 Incharge Quality & Standardisation Audit Implement quality benchmarks/parameters for various academic and administrative activities of the institution. assessment and evaluation for continuous improvement, statistical analysis of instrumentation to establish validity and reliability, and data dissemination. Create and develop the Quality Culture in the institution and maturation of faculty members to adopt the required knowledge and technology for participatory teaching and learning process. Conduct internal academic as well as administrative audits as per laid down frequency and guidelines. Collect feedback response from students, faculty members, and other stakeholders on quality-related institutional processes. Provide information on various quality parameters of higher education. Organise inter and intra institutional workshops and seminars on quality related themes. Manage all ISO certification activities. Document various programmes/activities leading to quality improvement and maintenance of institutional database for the purpose of maintaining/enhancing the institutional quality. Prepare the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) as per guidelines and parameters of accreditation, to be submitted to NAAC. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress.

[PAGE 70]
69 Ensure that the records are maintained as per the guidelines for accreditation NAAC and NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.40 Centre Head, Centre for Culture, Heritage Studies and Lok Kala Promotion and revival of various traditional arts and crafts practiced in the State of Haryana. Manage budgets and carry out strategic planning as well as secure funding from external sources Support the department of Pedagogy and Capacity building in development of course curriculum, training pedagogy and course content for the traditional arts and crafts courses. Support the Curator in Administration of the Skill Museum Promotion of literary, visual and performing arts in the State of Haryana Liaise with external agencies such as funding bodies, professional associations, other heritage organisations, tourist bodies and regional development agencies, to deliver co- funded and joint-venture projects Observation of centenaries and anniversaries of important national personalities and events Promotion of institutional and individual non-official initiatives in the fields of art and culture Entering into cultural agreements with various Government departments. Creating cultural awareness from the grass root level to the international cultural exchange level. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 71]
70 7.41 Centre Head for Monitoring of Employability Develop the overall framework, for conducting skill gap, employability and impact assessment studies in the priority sectors of the University with relevant data collection and analytics systems. Development and/or finalization of the project Work Plan and keep it updated in accordance with project activities and timeframes as relevant. Review the quality of existing data in the subject areas, the methods of collecting it, and the degree to which it will provide good baseline statistics for skill gap study/employability study/ impact evaluation. Develop baseline data for each project component and for all project indicators. With collaborating partners, review their existing approaches and management information systems and agree on any required changes, support and resources. Develop a plan for project-related capacity-building on Monitoring and to develop system for any computer-based support that may be required. Organize and undertake training with collaborating partners on Monitoring as required. Collect data on a regular basis to measure achievement against the performance indicators. Maintain and administer the Monitoring database; analyse and aggregate findings. Support project progress reporting, project mid-term review and final evaluation. Identify areas where technical support to project partners is required. Organize refresher training on Monitoring for partners as required. Identify lessons learned and develop case studies to capture qualitative outputs of the project and to provide advice on improving course curriculum development using Monitoring findings. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Make budgetary provisions with the approval of competent authority in advance and track its utilization. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 72]
71 7.42 Controller of Finance Exercise general supervision over the finances of the University and advise the University regarding its financial policies. Hold and manage the property and investments of the University including trust and endowed property. Ensure that the limits fixed by the Finance Committee for recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a year are not exceeded and that all moneys are expended on the purpose for which they are granted or allotted. Be responsible for the preparation of annual accounts and the annual and revised budget of the University and for their presentation to the Finance committee and Executive Council. Keep constant watch on the state of the cash and bank balances and on the state of investments of the University. Watch progress of the collection of revenue and advise on the methods of collection to be employed. Ensure that registers of buildings, land, furniture and equipment are maintained up-to-date and that stock checking of equipment and other concerned material in all offices, special centers, specialized laboratories maintained by the University is conducted. Submit quarterly report on all aspects of finances of the University to the Vice Chancellor. Bring to the notice of the Vice Chancellor any unauthorized expenditure and other financial irregularities and suggest action to be taken against the person responsible for it. Call for, from any officer, center, laboratory maintained by the University, any information or returns that may be considered necessary for the performance of his/her duties. The receipt of the Controller of Finance or person duly authorized in this behalf by the Executive Council for any money payable to the University shall be sufficient discharge for payment of such money. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Perform such other functions as may be assigned to him by the Vice Chancellor or as may be prescribed by the Statutes/Ordinances etc.

[PAGE 73]
72 7.43 Curator for Skill Museum Developing and organising new collections to expand and improve educational and research facilities Extensively researching, negotiating prices on and buying items such as sculptures, statues and paintings that can add value to the collection Maintaining records and cataloguing acquisitions Researching, compiling and preparing written information about catalogues and publishing it on the institution's website Collaborating with other institutions for displaying various artefacts in the museum. Ensuring that collections are properly preserved Support the University raising funds and grants for running the skill museum Deal with enquiries from researchers and the public Design and analyse visitor feedback surveys. Develop new ways to present the attraction or collection to maximise visitors' enjoyment and understanding Administer the collection of entrance fees, donations, sponsorship and memberships Keep up to date with developments in the field and with historical research into topics related to the attraction Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time 7.44 Principal Feeder School 7.44.1 Role of Principal Feeder School The Principal of the Feeder School is responsible for ensuring compliance with all provisions of CBSE and NSQF. The Principal shall execute all academic and administrative duties required of a head of educational institute as per the laid down Government guidelines. The Principal shall implement vocational training as per the NEP and design learning pathways for students, aligned with NSQF and industry specific job roles. The Principal shall provide support to the school staff, aligning their personal and professional goals with the overall vision and mission of the school. The Principal shall

[PAGE 74]
73 collaboratively work with the respective Deans of Skill Faculties to achieve common objectives. 7.44.2 Duties and Functions The functions of the Principal are as under: Execute all Academic and Administrative duties required of a head of educational institute as per the laid down Government guidelines. Ensure all provisions of CBSE as given time to time are strictly complied with. Implement vocational training as laid down by the Government of Haryana. Ensure reduced dropout rates at the secondary/senior secondary level. Design learning pathways for students after class 8th in the skilling framework aligned with NSQF and industry specific job roles. Develop creditised modular formats in skill education with vertical and horizontal mobility. Interact with respective Deans of Skill Faculties for activities like laboratory visits and use of infrastructure. Create and implement vocational training curriculum as per NEP. Ensure hiring induction orientation and training of members of the teaching faculty. Create and implement a robust and fair appraisal system for teaching and non-teaching staff. Ensure creation and implementation of the academic calendar by the teaching staff. Arrange for special remedial teaching of the children belonging to the weaker sections of the community and also of other children who need such remedial teaching. Plan and implement informal training classes for academically weaker students. Plan and execute sports and co-curricular training activities as part of the calendar. Ensure adequate training infrastructure and laboratories. Ensure availability of adequate safety, hygiene and infrastructure facilities as per laid down guidelines. Ensure judicious and transparent management of grants and funds as per Government guidelines. Act as a custodian for all property and equipment of the school. Timely response to all Government queries.

[PAGE 75]
74 Be in-charge of admission in the school, preparation of school timetable, allocation of duties and teaching load to the teachers, and shall provide necessary facilities to the teachers for the discharge of their duties and conduct of school examination in accordance with the instructions issued by the Government/Board from time to time. Help and guide the teachers to promote their professional growth and actively encourage their participation in programmes designed for in service education. Ensure classroom teaching and secure co-operation and coordination amongst teachers of the same subject areas as well as inter subject coordination. Develop and organize the library resources and reading facilities in the school and ensure that the students and teachers have access to and use of books and journals of established value and usefulness. Send regularly the progress reports of the students to their parents/guardians. Promote the physical well-being of the students, ensure high standard of cleanliness and health habits, and arrange periodical medical examinations of the students and send medical reports to parents or guardians. Be responsible for sending teachers for the evaluation of answer scripts in respect of examinations as per requirements of the Board from time to time. Make budgetary provisions in advance and track its utilization. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Organise activities and maintain records as per the guidelines of accreditation and other bodies such as NAAC, NBA, NIRF etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.45 Nodal Officers of Centres/Cells The Chairpersons will nominate a Nodal officer for all Centres/cells in the Department for coordination with Centres/Cells at University level notified by the Dean. The Nodal officers shall: Act as single point of contact for the Chairpersons, for all the activities of centres/ cells assigned at the Department level.

[PAGE 76]
75 Prepare an activity calendar in coordination with the in charge of respective centres/cells at University level and execute tasks pertaining to the respective centres/cells at the Department level. Present report and analysis as per the directions of the Chairperson. Regularly monitor the activities and tasks in their respective centres/cells. Execute all decided activities under the assigned centres/cells Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Maintain the records of activities of centres/cells as per the guidelines shared by in charge at University level and accreditation bodies NAAC, NBA etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time. 7.46 Nodal Officers of short-term training programme and RPL Each of the Skill Faculties will nominate one nodal officer from their respective skill faculties as a Nodal officer for short term training & RPL. Preparation of calendar for short term training and RPL programme in coordination with the chairperson and programme coordinator of the respective programme/department. Ensure monitoring and compliance of all the activities related to short term programme and RPL as per the stipulated timelines. Present report and analysis as per the directions of the dean of skill faculties. Support in executing all the decided activities under short term programmes and RPL. Demonstration of work through effectiveness of achieved objectives. Periodic monitoring, tracking and tabulation of information and progress. Maintain the records of activities of cell as per the guidelines shared by in charge at university level and accreditation bodies NAAC, NBA etc. Carry out any other responsibility as may be assigned by the competent authority from time to time.

[PAGE 77]
76 8 ORDINANCE VIII AWARD OF DEGREES (Under Section 24 C of SVSU Act) 1. When the Skill Council has sanctioned the admission of any such person to any degree, he/she shall be entitled to be formally admitted to that degree. The date of formal admission to a degree shall be the date on which the Vice Chancellor has approved the admission of such student to any degree. The Skill Council shall, from time to time approve the names of all students who have passed the examination required for the various degrees of the University and have become qualified for admission to such degrees. The date of formal admission to a degree shall be the date on which he/she has taken admission. 2. For conferment of degrees, the Vice Chancellor may approve the same and report to Skill Council and the Executive Council every year before the Convocation. 3. 4. The Registrar shall, with the notice, issue to each member of University Convocation, a programme and the procedure to be observed at the Convocation 5. The candidates for degrees/diplomas must, 10 days before the date fixed for the University Convocation inform the Registrar in writing of their intention to be present. No candidate shall be admitted to the Convocation who has not sent his name to the Registrar within the prescribed time. Provided that if an application is received by the Registrar not later than 72 hours before the time of the Convocation and is accompanied by a fee as prescribed in each case, the candidate may be admitted to the Convocation, with the permission of the Vice Chancellor. 6. If the Vice Chancellor is satisfied that the Convocation cannot be held for good reasons, the degrees/diplomas shall be awarded without holding a Convocation. The degrees which remain undistributed with the colleges/Institutions/University Departments due to non- attendance in the Convocation by the candidates, may not be returned to the University and be distributed to the candidates concerned either in person or be sent to them by post under registered cover on payment of prescribed fee, if any, in each case. The amount so realized shall be credited to Amalgamated Fund.

[PAGE 78]
77 9 ORDINANCE IX 22 (g) of SVSU Act) 9.1 Definitions Department means the teaching Skill Departments of the University to which the student, found involved in the act of indiscipline, belongs. as laid down in the Ordinance, constituted by the Vice Chancellor. the Skill Faculty, appointed by the University to which the student belongs. Chairperson of the Department means the Chairperson of the Skill Department to which the student belongs. Student means the student found involved in any act of indiscipline for which the proposed action as provided in this Ordinance is to be taken. Teacher means any member of the faculty/OJT mentor/Incharge taking a class, giving a lecture, taking practicals, being incharge of excursion games and tours of students or OJT or coaching in campus and includes Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, and Coaches. misbehavior occurs, if such act or a part of it happens in Hostel. includes the following: Misconduct or misbehavior in the classroom/OJT/Industry/center of excellence or anywhere on the University campus or outside the campus when on authorized visits/deputed by the University or during tours/trips/surveys/internship (in company training) forming part of curriculum. Causing damage to or defacement of University/Industry property. Instigating or causing to instigate, organization of strikes or participation therein, demonstration or disturbances of any kind including gheraos, lock-outs which may disrupt the Convocation, admissions, teachings, examinations, work-shops, conference and other functions of the University/working of industry partner. Disobedience or disregard of instructions or notifications issued by Chairpersons/Incharges, members of faculty, and other officers of the University/Industry partner.

[PAGE 79]
78 Instigating or causing to instigate, misguiding the employees/workers of the University to indulge in activities contrary to the interest and discipline of the University/Industry partner. Persuading students to be absent from classes/OJT and examinations, disrupting the conduct of classes/OJT in any manner and other academic activities of the University/Industry. To act or cause/instigate others to act in such a manner as to create disturbance or annoyance to other students/inmates of hostels/employees of University/Industry partner/residents of the campus community/any other person on the University campus/Industry or otherwise or to act or cause/instigate others to take law into their own hands. Keeping, carrying, using or supplying of any arms, lethal weapons, knives with a blade of el or outside within the University/Industry premises. Keeping, using or supplying intoxicants/drugs in any form in the hostels, within the University campus/Industry premises. Gambling/betting in any form on the University campus/industry premises. Ragging, bullying or harassing students in the classes/OJT/hostels/within/outside the University campus/industry premises. Ragging, for the purpose of this Ordinance, ordinarily means any act, conduct or practice by which dominant power or status of senior students is brought to bear on students freshly enrolled or students who are in any way considered junior or inferior by other students and includes individual or collective acts or practices which Involve physical assault or threat to use physical force. Violate the status, dignity and honour of female students and the students belonging to the scheduled castes and tribes. Expose students to ridicule and contempt and affect their self -esteem. Entail verbal abuse and aggression, indecent gestures and obscene behaviour. Recourse to violence, assault, intimidation, rioting within or outside the campus/industry. Disturbing other students in their studies. Attending or organizing unauthorized meetings and participating in such meetings. Displaying notices, leaflets, or posters, not signed or countersigned by competent authority at the hostel/University notice boards or other places or distributing such notices or leaflets or defacing University buildings/Industry or writing slogans and undesirable things on the buildings/property/Industry premises walls etc.:

[PAGE 80]
79 Forging of signatures in any way of the faculty member/students at the time of registration/any other time, submitting fake certificates; Eve-teasing, molestation and physical assault, or threat to use physical force against any member of the teaching and non-teaching staff of any Institution/Department (Branch Officer/library) and against any student within the University/industry premises. To give shelter to outsiders/students in the hostel when the stay/visit of such student/outsider has been expressly barred by the orders passed by the University for a specific period or for a general period. To indulge in an act which may bring disrepute to the University/industry in any manner. Any practice- whether verbal or otherwise-derogatory to women. Creating ill-will or intolerance on religious, caste or communal grounds. Any other act which in the opinion of the Vice Chancellor or any other officer authorized by the Vice Chancellor in this regard is considered to be an act of indiscipline. 9.2 Discipline Discipline includes the observance of good conduct and orderly behaviour by the students of the University; 9.3 Rules The following and such other Rules as framed by the University from time to time shall strictly be observed by the students of the University; Every student of the University shall maintain discipline and consider it his/her duty to behave decently at all places; No student shall visit places or areas declared by the University as "Out of Bounds" for the students; Every student shall always carry his/her Identity Card issued by the competent authority of the University; Every student, who has been issued the Identity Card, shall have to produce or surrender the Identity Card, as and when required by the University; Any student found guilty of impersonation or of giving a false name shall be liable to disciplinary action; The loss of the Identity Card, whenever it occurs, shall immediately be reported in writing to the competent authority of the University and also to the local Police Station. If a student is found to be continuously absent from classes without information for a period of 15 days in one or more classes, his/her name shall be struck off the rolls. He/she may,

[PAGE 81]
80 however, be readmitted within the next fortnight by the University on payment of the prescribed readmission fee, etc. He/she will not be readmitted beyond the prescribed period. 9.4 Indiscipline Indiscipline shall include: Irregularity in attendance, persistent idleness or negligence or indifference towards the work assigned; Causing disturbance to a Class or the Office or the Library, the Auditorium and the Play Ground etc.; Disobeying the instructions of teachers or the authorities; Misconduct or misbehaviour of any nature at the time of elections to the student bodies or at meetings or during curricular or extra-curricular activities of the University; Misconduct or misbehaviour of any nature at the Examination Centre; Misconduct or misbehaviour of any nature towards a teacher or any employee of the University or any visitor to the University; Causing damage, spoiling or disfiguring to the property/equipment of the University; Inciting others to do any of the aforesaid acts; Giving publicity to misleading accounts or rumour amongst the students; Mischief, misbehaviour and/or nuisance committed by the residents of the hostels; Visiting places or areas declared as 'Out of Bounds' for the students; Not carrying the Identity Cards issued by the competent authority; Refusing to produce or surrender the Identity Card as and when required by Proctorial and other Staff of the University; Any act and form of sexual harassment, ragging or discrimination on the basis of caste, category, religion, race etc.; Engaging in unlawful activities that includes membership of banned organizations, organizing meetings and processions without due permission of the competent authorities; and Any other conduct anywhere which is considered to be unbecoming of a student.

[PAGE 82]
81 9.5 Punishment Students found guilty of breach of discipline shall be liable to such punishment, as prescribed below: Fine Campus Ban Expulsion Rustication However, no such punishment shall be imposed on an erring student unless he/she is given a fair chance to defend himself/herself. This shall not preclude the Vice Chancellor from suspending an erring student during the pendency of disciplinary proceedings against him/her. 9.6 Powers Relating to Discipline and Disciplinary Action All powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to the student shall vest with the Vice Chancellor. However, the Vice Chancellor may delegate all or any of his powers as he/she deemed proper to the competent authority or to the Discipline Committee as the case may be or any functionary of the University. 9.7 Discipline Committee Without prejudice to any provision in the Act or Statute, there shall be a Discipline Committee comprising of the following members: i. Dean Students' Welfare (DSW) - Chairman. ii. Three Deans of the Schools to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor. iii. Dean and Head of the concerned Skill Faculty and the Department/Centre. iv. Chief Warden and the Warden of the concerned hostel. v. Proctor - Member Secretary Subject to any powers conferred by the Act and the Statute on the Vice Chancellor, the Committee shall take cognizance of all matters relating to discipline and proper standards of behaviour of the students of the University and shall have the powers to punish the guilty as it deems appropriate. The said Committee shall, make such rules as it deems fit for the performance of its functions and these rules and any other orders under them shall be binding on all the students of the University. The recommendations of the Discipline Committee shall be submitted to the Vice Chancellor whose decision will be final and binding. However, the Vice Chancellor, if he/she is of the

[PAGE 83]
82 opinion that the case merits' review, may refer the case back to the Discipline Committee for reconsideration. Appeal against the decision may be submitted to the Vice Chancellor who may refer the same to the Discipline Committee for their reconsideration and the decision taken by the Vice Chancellor on appeal shall be final and binding. Half of the total members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the said Committee.

[PAGE 84]
83 10 ORDINANCE X PROHIBITION OF RAGGING (Under Section 24 (k) of SVSU Act) To provide for prohibition of ragging in the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, its maintained institutions and educational institutions affiliated to it and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 1. This Ordinance may be called the University Prohibition of ragging in Educational Institution Ordinance, 2021. 2. In this Ordinance, unless the context otherwise requires, - (a) n anti-ragging Committee constituted under section 5 of the Ordinance. (b) constitution unit and includes canteen, hostel or transport provided by school, college or University, whether within or outside the premises; (c) (d) constituent College or Principle/Headmaster of the School, as the case may be head of an institution or Director of an educational institute by whatever name called; (e) institution imparting education and research facilities; (f) an act which causes or is likely to cause insult or annoyance or fear or apprehension or threat of intimidation or outrage of the modesty or injury to a student and includes the following acts, namely i. abetment to ragging; ii. criminal conspiracy to ragging; iii. unlawful assembly and rioting while ragging; iv. public nuisance created during ragging; v. verbal abuse and aggression, indecent gestures and obscene behaviour; vi. outraging the modesty; vii. injury to body, causing hurt or grievous hurt; viii. wrongful restraint; ix. wrongful confinement;

[PAGE 85]
84 x. use of criminal force; xi. assault as well as sexual offence; xii. extortion; xiii. trespass; xiv. offence against property; xv. criminal intimidation; xvi. physical or psychological humiliation; xvii. defamation or threat to defame; xviii. any type of abuse through electronic media; xix. threat to commit any or all of the above-mentioned offences; (g) (h) constituent College/School; (i) Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudhola, Palwal: 3. (a) There shall be a complete prohibition of ragging of a student in the University and all the constituent or affiliated educational institution, in any form and nature; (b) No educational institute shall permit or condone any incident of ragging in any form and shall take all necessary and required measures including but not limited to the provisions of the Ordinance to achieve the objectives of eliminating ragging within the educational institute or outside. (c) No student shall practice ragging in any form, within or outside the premises of an educational institute. (d) All educational institutes shall take action in accordance with the Ordinance against those found guilty of ragging. 4. The Head shall: (a) be overall responsible to stop and prevent ragging and take all necessary preventive measures to prohibit ragging in educational institute and shall ensure that no person practice ragging in any form within or outside the premises of an educational institution and adopt required measures to achieve the object; (b) obtain an undertaking in writing from the students, in case he/she is eighteen years of age or above and from his/her parents/guardian and the student concerned in case

[PAGE 86]
85 he/she is less than eighteen years that he/she shall not attempt, abet or commit ragging inside or outside the educational institution at the time of admission; (c) give full publicity to the provisions of the Ordinance and about the members of the committee along with their mobile numbers etc. by placing the same at prominent places as well as at notice board in the educational institution and also make it a part of prospectus and upload on its website; (d) give full publicity to the punishments to be awarded for ragging through open circulars and suitable posters in the educational institution; and (e) notify any change in the constitution of the committee immediately and shall take necessary action as per Clause (iii) above. 5. (a) There shall be constituted with immediate effect one or more committee (s) in all educational institutions by the Head, depending upon strength of students, vastness of premises of the educational institution and the number of Departments etc. (b) Each committee shall consist of three senior faculty members out of which at least one shall be a woman and senior most amongst them shall be the Chairperson. The committee shall also consist of two representatives from amongst the parents of the students including a woman to be nominated by the Head; Provided that in case of an educational institution exclusively for boys or girls, all the members may he male or female, as the case may be. (c) The parents of the students nominated in a committee shall hold office for a maximum term of two academic sessions. 6. (a) The committee or any member thereof shall have power to inspect any class room, hostel room or any other enclosure where it apprehends that any incident of ragging is being committed or there is apprehension of the same. (b) The committee may take appropriate steps and suggest such measures as deemed necessary to the Head. (c) On receipt of an information by any member of the committee from the Head, a student, parents or any source in writing or through any electronic media that an act of ragging is being committed or there is apprehension of the same, he/she shall intimate the same to the Chairperson and may conduct raid, if necessary or take other appropriate steps to stop the act of ragging. (d) The member or the committee may conduct on the spot inquiry observing a fair and transparent procedure and the principle of natural justice and shall give an adequate opportunity to the victim student and student accused of ragging and other witnesses

[PAGE 87]
86 and may also ask them to produce other documents or witnesses, if necessary, concerning the incident of ragging. (e) The committee shall submit the inquiry report to the Head within seventy-two hours of the incident for appropriate action under the Ordinance. Provided that in case an offence is committed under the provisions of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) and is a cognizable offence, the member shall immediately report the matter to the Head. 7. (a) The Head shall examine the report and if satisfied will take appropriate action as per the gravity of offence. (b) On receipt of the report of ragging, the Head will direct the committee to make an inquiry and report. (c) The committee on receipt of any information concerning any reported incident of ragging, the Head, shall immediately determine if a criminal offence is made out and if so, it either on his/her own motion or through a member of the committee authorized by him/her, proceed to file First Information Report immediately. Provided that the educational institution shall also continue with its own inquiry and other measures without waiting for action on the part of the police and such remedial action shall be initiated and complete immediately. (d) If the Head is not satisfied with the report made by the committee, he/she may, himself/herself, conduct an independent enquiry and pass any appropriate orders in writing, for reasons to be recorded therein. He/she may also decide to lodge First Information Report (FIR) if an offence is found to have been committed under the Indian Panel Code,1860 (45 of 1860) and is a Cognizable offence. 8. (a) In a proven case of ragging, whether First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged or not, the Head shall impose a punishment of suspension for at least a period of two semesters or one annual academic year, as the case may be, and may also impose any one combination, of penalties as described in (i) to (x) of sub-section (2): (b) Depending upon the nature and gravity of the offence as reported by the committee, the Head may impose any one or combination of the following punishments upon the students(s) found guilty i. withholding or withdrawing scholarship ii. or fellowship and other benefits; iii. forfeiting campus placement opportunities or recommendations;

[PAGE 88]
87 iv. debarring from appearing in any test or examination or other evaluation process; v. withholding of result; vi. debarring from representing the educational institution in any regional, national or international meet, tournament, youth festival etc. vii. suspension or expulsion from the hostel; viii. cancellation of admission; ix. rustication from the educational institution for a period, ranging upto three years; x. expulsion from the educational institution and consequent debarring from admission to any other educational institution for a period of three years; xi. imposition of fine up to thirty-five thousand rupees. 9. The Head shall ensure that there is no contravention of the provisions of this Ordinance or direction or order made there under by an educational institution. 10. The provisions of this Ordinance shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the Indian Penal Code 1860 (45 of 1860), the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and the provisions of the University Act and other Laws.

[PAGE 89]
88 11 ORDINANCE XI EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS' GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL COMITTEES (Under Section of 30 & 24 (L) of SVSU Act) There shall be a constituted mechanism for the redressal of the grievances of Employees and Students of the University. Unless otherwise mentioned: Student means all students who are enrolled for a Programme of study in any Skill Faculty/School/Centre/Skill Department/College or Campus maintained or affiliated by the University. Employee means any person appointed by the University, its affiliated colleges, including teachers and other staff of the University. 11.1 General Principles of Grievances Committee The Grievances Committee shall observe the following general principles: i. The Campus and its affiliated Community should be made fully aware of the grievance redressal mechanism; ii. Every grievance from the student/staff should be registered and acknowledged; iii. If a final decision is not possible within a fortnight, an acknowledgement should be sent to the applicant along with an indication as to when he/she can expect a final reply; iv. As a matter of general rule, no grievances should be pending beyond the limit of three months; v. The officer nominated by the Vice Chancellor and the person responsible for addressing grievances should make himself/herself freely available to hear the grievances personally, at least once a week at fixed timings; and vi. He/she will take decisions on grievances which are pending for more than three months. Aggrieved parties who are not satisfied with redressal in subordinate/attached formation may approach the Vice Chancellor for a decision. 11.2 i. Dean of Students' Welfare (DSW) Chairman ii. Proctor Member

[PAGE 90]
89 iii. Two Nominees of the Vice Chancellor (one male & one female) Members iv. Two Representatives of Students (one male & one female) Members v. Dean of the School concerned Member vi. Chief Warden Member vii. Secretary to the Committee to be nominated by the DSW Secretary 11.2.1 Powers and Functions i. to entertain written and signed complaints and petitions of students in respect of matters directly affecting them individually or as a group; ii. to enquire into the grievances, and make recommendations and report to the Vice Chancellor for redressal or suitable action; and iii. to recommend appropriate action against complainant, if allegations made in the documents are found to be baseless. 11.3 Teachers' Grievances Committee There shall be a Committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor and approved by the Executive Council consisting of the following: i. Vice Chancellor or his/her nominee Chairman. ii. ty, SC, OBC. - Members: iii. Two outside experts not below the rank of Professor (one male & one female). - Members: iv. Secretary to the Committee to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor - Secretary 11.3.1 Powers and Functions i. to entertain written and signed complaints and petitions of teachers in respect of matters directly affecting them individually or as group; ii. to enquire into the grievances, and make recommendations and report to the Vice Chancellor who may place it to the Executive Council for redressal or suitable action; and iii. to recommend appropriate action against complainant, if allegations made in the documents are found to be baseless. 11.4 Non-Teaching Staff Grievances Committee There shall be a Committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor consisting of the following:

[PAGE 91]
90 i. Chairman to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor. ii. Five representatives from the non-teaching staff representing gender, minority, SC, OBC - Members iii. Two outside experts to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor (one male & one female). - Members iv. The Registrar or his nominee shall be the Member-Secretary of the Committee. 11.4.1 Powers And Functions i. to entertain and consider written and signed complaints and petitions of staff (Non- Teaching) in respect of matters directly affecting them individually or as a group; ii. to enquire into the grievances, and make recommendations and report to the Vice Chancellor for redressal or suitable action; and iii. to recommend appropriate action against complainant, if allegations made in the documents are found to be baseless. 11.5 Tenure of the committees Three years. However, if there is any vacancy in membership, the same may be filled from the respective category for the residual period. 11.6 Quorum Fifty percent of the total membership of the respective committee.

[PAGE 92]
91 12 ORDINANCE XII GAMES AND SPORTS COMMITTEE (Under Section 22 (j) of SVSU Act) 12.1 Constitution There shall be a Games and Sports Committee consisting of the following members, namely: - i. The Vice Chancellor or his/her nominee- Chairman ii. Dean Students' Welfare (DSW) iii. Presidents of various Games and Sports Committees/Clubs iv. Two outside outstanding sportspersons (one male & one female) to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor who have won State/National or International championship. v. Two Outstanding Sportsman (one male & one female) from among the students on rolls, nominated by the Chairman for a period of one year vi. Director/Deputy Director of Sports, who shall be the Ex-Officio Member-Secretary of the Games and Sports Committee The Chairman of the Committee shall hold office for a term of two years if he/she is nominated by the Vice Chancellor. 12.2 Duties and Functions The Committee shall: i. make arrangements and supervise the games and sports of the University and frame regulations in this regard; ii. recommend to the University the budget for games and sports; iii. allocate finances to the various sports activities/Clubs; iv. maintain the play-grounds, gymnasia, swimming pools of the University; v. hold contests, competitions, tournaments, athletic meets etc.; vi. recommend to the Vice Chancellor the names of outstanding players and sportsmen to be nominated for admission to various programmes. vii. perform such other functions, as may be assigned to it by the Skill Council from time to time; and viii. take measures to attract the sports talent available in the University. The Director/Deputy Director, Sports will operate the budget under the supervision of DSW.

[PAGE 93]
92 The Committee shall hold its meetings at least once in a semester under the supervision of the DSW. Half of the total members shall form the quorum for a meeting of the Committee.

[PAGE 94]
93 13 ORDINANCE XIII GRANT OF FREESHIPS TO STUDENTS (Under Section 24 (E) & 22 (F) of SVSU Act) 1. The Dean of Students Welfare (DSW) on the recommendation of a Committee consisting of the following shall grant free-ships up to the percentage which may be prescribed by the University in this regard: i. DSW-Chairperson; ii. Deans/Heads of concerned Skill Faculty/Departments/Centres of the University; iii. Two students (one male & one female) from the University to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor on the recommendation of the DSW (preference may be given to the students availing benefit of free-ship). 2. If number of applicants for free-ships is more than the number of free-ships available, the committee referred to in Sub-Clause (i) may recommend half free-ships to some of the applicants so that the total of free-ships does not exceed the prescribed percentage. 3. Applications for concession in fees shall be submitted on the prescribed form to the Dean of the School concerned through the Head of the Department/Centre latest by 31st August or by such other date as may be specified by the Dean Students Welfare. Applications received after that date shall not ordinarily be entertained. 4. The following factors shall be taken into account while making recommendation on the applications of students for grant of free-ships: i. Academic record of the student; ii. His/her progress in studies in the case of renewal of freeships; iii. His/her financial position; and iv. Any other factor such as natural calamity, pandemic etc., which the committee may consider relevant shall also be recorded. The list of students to whom concessions have been awarded shall ordinarily be notified as early as possible but not later than 31st December of the year. Note: The student should fulfil the means criteria and in order to prove the means criteria, the student is required to submit Income Certificate issued by the competent authority on their prescribed format, clearly indicating the annual income from all sources with separately indicating the sources of income of their parents/guardians. Any deliberate falsification in the Income Certificate and/or other enclosed documents with the application discovered at any stage will be considered as a grievous offence and may invite serious disciplinary action under the rules of the University.

[PAGE 95]
94 5. Free-ships granted during the academic year shall not be renewed automatically in the following year. The students in need of such concession shall submit fresh applications every year, which shall be considered along with new applications received in the year. 6. A free-ship granted to a student may be cancelled if his/her conduct or progress in studies is found to be unsatisfactory or if his/her financial condition improves and he/she is no longer in need of fee concession. 7. The fee concession (free-ship/half-free-ship) is confined to tuition fees of that particular academic year only. However, in exceptional cases the committee may also recommend to provide assistance for other charges/dues in addition to the free-ship of tuition fee. 8. If a student, who has been sanctioned free-ship/half free-ship, has already paid the fees, the fee may be reimbursed. If, the student has not paid the fees, the fee concession shall be adjusted towards fees and any other dues. 9. In exceptional cases mentioned in serial no. 4(iv) above may be considered in special meeting(s) of the committee as and when required irrespective of above-mentioned time frame.

[PAGE 96]
95 14 ORDINANCE XIV AWARD OF FELLOWSHIPS, SCHOLARSHIPS, STUDENTSHIPS, MEDALS AND PRIZES (Under Section 246 (C1) & Section 22 (F) (xii) and Section 28 (1) (f) of SVSU Act) 1. In order to encourage meritorious and deserving students to pursue Courses of studies and research in the University without great financial strain, the University shall strive to provide for adequate number of Scholarships, Fellowships, Studentships and Free-ships, for financial help, and also provide for award of Medals and Prizes. 2. There shall be instituted Scholarships in every subject to be awarded to the students of the University/Affiliated Colleges (wherever applicable) subject to availability of funds. Rules for award of the same will be laid down in the Regulations. 3. There shall be fee concession in the form of half and full Freeships of tuition fee in each School and teaching Departments as per norms of the UGC. 4. There shall also be a scheme of merit Scholarship, subject to availability of funds, where the first and second rank holders in every subject will be awarded Scholarship the quantum of which shall be decided by the University from time to time. 5. All types of Scholarships and Freeships shall be administered at the University level by a Committee to be constituted by the Vice-Chancellor. 6. There shall be Fellowships instituted in the University, subject to availability of funds, for studies or research as approved under the norms of UGC or other funding Agencies from time to time. 7. There shall be a scheme to award medals/ prizes to the meritorious students of the University and Affiliated Colleges I Institutions (wherever applicable) for their best performance in various University Examinations. 8. The University shall have power to institute endowments from time to time in accordance with the Central Universities Act 2009. 9. There shall also be a Committee constituted by the Vice-chancellor for administration of each endowment and to implement the objects of the endowment. 10. Detailed guidelines shall be framed from time to time by the Executive Council governing the administration of Scholarships, Free-ships, Fellowships, Medals and other such endowments created in the University.

[PAGE 97]
96 15 ORDINANCE XV HONORARY PROFESSORS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) 1. Any distinguished scholar, whose association with the University would help furtherance of the academic life and activities of the University, may with the approval of the Executive Council, be invited by the Vice Chancellor to function as Honorary Professor in the University for such period as may be determined. 2. An Honorary Professor is expected to be associated with normal academic activities of the Department to which he is attached and the Department shall provide adequate facilities to him. 3. Persons invited to join the University as Honorary Professors may be paid traveling expenses, accorded hospitability and other facilities in the manner as may be decided by the Vice Chancellor.

[PAGE 98]
97 16 ORDINANCE XVI ADJUNCT PROFESSORS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) 1. With a view to encourage and promote greater interaction in various areas between the University, industry, research, and other centres of repute, a distinguished person having special competence in skill/education/sectorial Subject Matter Experts be appointed as Adjunct Professor by the Executive Council from Industry/Research/Institutions and other establishments based on the recommendations of the sector-wise Search Committee, approved by the Vice-Chancellor. 2. Adjunct Professor would be associated with the Department to which he/she is attached for academic activities for which adequate facility will be provided by the Department. 3. Persons appointed as Adjunct Professor may be paid suitable remuneration, traveling allowance and would be provided free accommodation in the University Guest House/Faculty House. 4. Candidate for adjunct faculty should satisfy the following norms: i. For Conventional Higher Education Programmes: a. Should have the minimum qualifications as prescribed in the regulations framed by UGC / respective statutory councils from time to time. OR b. A person of eminence with or without a postgraduate or Ph.D. qualifications. ii. For Skill based Programmes: a. Should be an accomplished professional / expert in his chosen field of discipline and may not necessarily possess qualifications prescribed under UGC regulations. OR b. Should be a certified professional, for teaching and training on National Occupational Standards under NSQF, by the Sector Skills Council for teaching respective trade / job role. They are also expected to have an understanding of industry requirements, National Occupational Standards (NOSs) and Assessment & Certification for skills. In addition to the above, it is expected that the adjunct faculty in both the above streams would be an accomplished scholar in his area of specialization and his association would add value to the academic programmes he is associated with. 16.1 Selection Criteria Adjunct Faculty will be shortlisted by a nominated Search Committee and appointed by the competent authority based on the recommendation of a Committee. Period of empanelment will vary from 06 months to 03 years as decided by the Institution on mutually agreed terms and conditions. It is expected that any application/recommendation from the Search Committee, for adjunct faculty, is first discussed at the department level. The department may forward the

[PAGE 99]
98 application/suitable nominees with comments specifying the suitability of such candidate(s) in the department / institution level academic activities. If the department recommends a case for adjunct faculty, the same should be examined by a Selection Committee comprising of following: i. Head of the Institution or his nominee (Chair). ii. Head of the concerned Department. iii. Dean (Academic / Research) in case of University / senior most faculty in case of college. iv. One External Expert (Nominated by head of the institution). OR Representative of Sector Skill Council / Industry Associations (for skill-based programmes). v. Registrar / Vice-Principal / Bursar or equivalent person (Convener). If the committee recommends the case, the same would be forwarded to the competent authority for consideration and necessary approval. The strength of Adjunct faculty may not exceed 25 % the sanctioned strength of faculty at any time. 16.2 Roles & Responsibilities The empaneled adjunct faculty is expected to undertake following assignments: i. Teaching a. Conventional Higher Education Programmes: Adjunct faculty will be expected to teach programmes directly related to his specific expertise and professional experience or the counseling of students, developing new programme(s) and pedagogical improvements. b. Skill based Vocational Programmes: The core subjects pertaining to specialized skills / trades may be imparted by the adjunct faculty from industry, Sector Skill Councils approved trainers or other persons with appropriate skill proficiency. Such faculty, imparting education and training to learners in skill-based programmes, should have relevant NSQF qualifications, preferably certified by the relevant Sector Skill Council. c. Research Programmes: Adjunct faculty may also be involved in the M.Phil / Ph.D. coursework based on his professional and research proficiency adjudged by the concerned institution. ii. Training

[PAGE 100]
99 Adjunct faculty will be expected to facilitate the setting of workshops and laboratories, providing hands on training in the relevant domain areas, development of soft skills, and focus on ensuring competency-based learning outcomes among students. iii. Research Adjunct faculty is expected to interact with and supervise the research students in the area of his specialization or professional proficiency. However, there should be preferably one core faculty member associated as Supervisor / Cosupervisor for smooth induction and coordination of academic procedures. The adjunct faculty may lack a traditional academic background in such case, they are not expected to contribute to the institution's research and creative mission by participating in traditional scholarly activities (i.e. they are not expected to conduct independent research and/or publish in peer-reviewed journals). Instead, he may participate by advising faculty on their research projects, serving as a liaison between the institutions and industry or government entities to identify research and/or funding opportunities or by working with faculty to identify research projects that would benefit private industry and/or government entities. iv. Services Adjunct faculty is also expected to actively participate in service-related activities, such as sitting on departmental committees, serving as advisors/mentors to faculty and/or undergraduate and post graduate students, helping students network, and active collaboration with the industry / employer providing internship and job opportunities. 16.3 Cost and Honorarium i. Adjunct faculty will be provided travel cost, as per entitlement, from his/her institution/place of stay and back, maximum six (06) times per academic year. No reimbursement for hiring accommodation will be permissible. However, she/he will be provided free lodging and boarding in the Guest House. ii. He/She will be provided an honorarium of Rs. 1000/- (Rs. One Thousand Only) per lecture to a maximum of Rs. 4000/- (Rs. Four Thousand Only) per day of service subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs. 80,000/- (Rs. Eighty Thousand Only) per month. The Adjunct Faculty will work at the host institution for a minimum of 02 days per visit.

[PAGE 101]
100 16.4 Monitoring At the end of assignment, every Adjunct Faculty will submit a 'performance report' to the host University / college. The performance report, may be considered for his/her continuation / renewal of next tenure.

[PAGE 102]
101 17 ORDINANCE XVII VISITING PROFESSORS, VISITING FELLOWS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) 1. Distinguished persons/Eminent Subject Matter Experts from Academic and Industry, having special competence in one or the other field of study/industrial sectors may, with the approval of the Vice Chancellor be enlisted to function as Visiting Professors/Visiting Fellows the University. These Visiting Professors/Visiting Fellows can be drawn either from India or abroad. 2. Such Visiting Professors/Visiting Fellows will, according to the arrangements entered into in each individual case, deliver a course of lectures or take seminars or participate in such other manner as may be deemed appropriate in furtherance of teaching and research work in the University. 3. Persons invited as Visiting Professors/Visiting Fellows may be paid such salary and honorarium, traveling expenses, hospitality and other facilities as may be decided in each case by the Vice Chancellor. 4. Subject to the above, the Vice Chancellor will determine such other terms and conditions as may be required in the case of any Visiting Professor/Visiting Fellows, including the duration of the appointment and salary/honorarium to be paid, keeping in view the guidelines prescribed by the UGC/AICTE and other regulatory bodies.

[PAGE 103]
102 18 ORDINANCE XVIII PROFESSOR EMERITUS (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) 1. The Executive Council may confer the title of `Professor Emeritus' on any Professor of the University, who has outstanding reputation in his field, after his retirement. 2. The Vice Chancellor may recommend to the Skill Council the conferment of the title of `Professor Emeritus' and on the recommendation of the Skill Council, the Executive Council may confer the title. 3. The `Professor Emeritus' will be free to do academic work in the Department to which he is attached for which adequate facilities will be provided by the Department. 4. The conferment of the title of `Professor Emeritus' will be for life or for a term to be specified by the Executive Council. 5. The Vice Chancellor may, if deemed necessary, sanction any honorarium to the `Professor Emeritus', keeping in view the guidelines prescribed by the UGC/AICTE.

[PAGE 104]
103 19 ORDINANCE XIX PROFESSOR OF PRACTICE (Under Section 7 (K) of SVSU Act) 1. To strengthen Industry Academia collaboration, the UGC has taken a new initiative to bring the industry and other professional expertise into the academic institutions through a new category world practices and experiences into the classrooms and also augment the faculty resources in higher education institutions. In turn, the industry and society will benefit from trained graduates equipped with the relevant skills. 2. The University shall formally associate with persons of eminence and encourage them to participate in experiential learning, research, training, skilling, entrepreneurship and extension and to play mentoring role. 19.1 Eligibility i. Distinguished experts who have made remarkable contributions in their professions from various fields such as engineering, science, technology, entrepreneurship, management, hospitality, healthcare, commerce, social sciences, media, literature, languages, fine arts, civil services, armed forces, legal profession and public administration among others. Those who have proven expertise in their specific profession or role with at least 15 years of service/experience, preferably at a senior level, will be eligible for Professor of Practice. ii. A formal academic qualification is not considered essential for this position if they have exemplary professional practice in lieu. These experts will also be exempted from the requirement of publications and other eligibility criteria stipulated for the recruitment of faculty members at the Professor level. However, they should possess the skills to carry out the duties and responsibilities specified in the following section iii. The number of Professors of Practice in the University, at any point in time, should not exceed 20% of the sanctioned posts. 19.2 Duties and Responsibilities i. Involve in the development and designing of courses and curriculum. ii. Introduce new courses and deliver lectures as per institutional policies. iii. To encourage students in innovation and entrepreneurship projects & provide necessary mentorship for these activities.

[PAGE 105]
104 iv. To focus on enhanced industry-academia collaborations. v. Conduct jointly in collaboration with regular faculty member of the institution, workshops, seminars, deliver special lectures and training programmes. vi. Carryout joint research project or consultancy services in collaboration with the regular faculty member of the University. 19.3 General Conditions i. The engagement of Professor of Practice will be for a fixed term. ii. The engagement of Professor of Practice will be exclusive of the sanctioned posts of a university/college. It will not affect the number of sanctioned posts and the recruitment of regular faculty members. iii. Professor of Practice is not open for those in teaching profession- serving or retired. 19.4 Categories of Engagement It is envisioned that Professor of Practice can be engaged in one of the following categories: A. Professor of Practice funded by Industries B. Professor of Practice funded by HEIs from their own resources C. Professor of Practice on Honorary basis 19.4.1 Professor of Practice funded by Industries with specific skill sets. But the higher education system is churning out graduates who fall short of the required skills. As a result, many industries now hire graduates and provide adequate training before employing them. Involving experts from industry in teaching will benefit both the industry and the higher educational institutions. For engaging industry experts and professionals in this category, University may collaborate with the industries to support the Professor of Practice positions. 19.4.2 Professor of Practice funded by University from their own resources As per the policy directives of NEP 2020, graduate programmes are revised with the holistic and multidisciplinary approach. University may assess the required gap areas in different fields and engage experts working in leadership positions in various fields. In this category, the

[PAGE 106]
105 remuneration for the Professor of Practice is made by the University from their its resources as indicated below: Remuneration: Part-time/Full-time engagement: Consolidated amount, mutually agreed between the institution and expert. 19.4.3 . Professor of Practice on Honorary basis Experts fulfilling the eligibility criteria for the Professor of Practice may like to share their expertise with students and come forward to teach on honorary basis. Such experts may be engaged on honorary basis as Professor of Practice and their services may be utilized for the benefit of the students. The University will decide on the amount of honorarium to be paid to the Professor of Practice in this category from their own resources. 19.5 Procedure for selecting Professor of Practice i. The Vice-Chancellors/Directors may invite nominations from eminent experts for Professor of Practice positions. ii. The experts willing to serve may also be nominated or they can send their nomination to the Vice-Chancellor/Director with a detailed biodata and a brief write-up about their potential contribution to the University. iii. Such nominations will be considered by a selection committee consisting of two senior Professors from the University and one eminent external member. Based on the recommendations of this committee, the Academic Council and the Executive Council or statutory bodies of the University will decide on the engagement. 19.6 Tenure The engagement may be initially for up to one year. At the end of the initial engagement or subsequent extension, the University will make an assessment and take the decision about extension. The University will devise its own assessment procedure for extension based on the contribution and requirement of the experts engaged as Professors of Practice. The maximum duration of service of Professor of Practice at a given institution shall not exceed three years and is extendable by one year in exceptional cases and the total service shall not exceed four years under any circumstances.

[PAGE 107]
106 20 ORDINANCE XX DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES/GUIDELINES FOR THE UNIVERSITY (Under the Schedule 8.1 (a), (e), (g) of SVSU Act) The University from time to time shall develop policies/guidelines to give directions regarding methods of instructions, evaluation of research of improvements in academic standards etc. The policies/guidelines so developed are a mechanism for establishing operating rules to ensure consistency in carrying out the duties, functions, and responsibilities that reflect the mission and values of the University. This mechanism must be an effective process for recommending, coordinating, writing, approving and distributing these rules. Policies are guidelines for facu procedures with respect to various areas of focus such as faculty development, pedagogy and capacity building, consultancy etc. 1. Faculty development policy: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Haryana, envisages empowerment of its Skill Faculty Members / Teachers / Educators with a series of capacity-building training, workshops, FDPs, Seminars, Conferences, etc. so as to prepare them to identify, define and implement the changes through wants to address this challenge by developing an effective Faculty Development Policy. The Faculty Development Policy (FDP) of the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), aims at the professional skill development of its skill faculty members. 2. Pedagogy Policy The technology and methodology used for the performance on a job are rapidly undergoing change and advancement. Change and advancement in Technology can have significant impact on the methods of doing organizational work. New methods of doing organizational work is a reason for evolution of new jobs or modification of existing. Effective performance on the new and modified job roles needs learning of new skills or practicing of the old skills in a modified way. Learning of new skills is possible by effective training and training can be imparted by the use of appropriate pedagogical methods. The utmost important responsibility of skill institutions is to identify the newly emerged job roles and designing skill learning programmes. These skill learning programmes can be developed by including such sets of knowledge, skills and abilities which are helpful in the development of desired competencies for effective performance on the job. Desired competencies can be developed only by the practice of best and innovative pedagogical methods by the trainers. So, the use and practice of best and innovative pedagogical methods by the trainers is crucial factor in the effective imparting of skill. Understanding the significance of the pedagogy in the skill development, the Pedagogy Department, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Haryana shall framed the Pedagogy Policy of the University.

[PAGE 108]
107 3. Consultancy Policy Consultancy and Research at academic Institutes is "A way of life" to faculty members and the institution as a whole. Consultancy and research go hand in hand along with teaching in the institute. This also enriches practical knowledge for faculty members to take it to classrooms while teaching. Consultancy is essentially a knowledge-based profession and consultants play an important role in technological, industrial and economic development and are effective agents of change in the society. Over the years, consultancy capabilities have grown in several sectors, public and private and more recently a number of foreign consultants have also started operations in India. However, the domestic consultancy capabilities need to be strengthened and skills be upgraded continually in several sectors, since the consultancy profession growth in India has not kept pace with the industrial and economic developments over the years. Consultancy plays an important role in providing a competitive edge to an organization. The intangible assets of an organization such as technical know-how and expertise of the staff, are today, often more valuable than its physical assets. Over the last few decades, legitimate appreciation of the commercial value of technical know-how has grown both within the academic / non-academic community and in the society at large. Keeping in view the importance of higher education in spawning societal changes and transforming the economic fortunes of a country by emphasizing innovations, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University wishes to take several measures for promoting innovative academic research and technical innovations by encouraging interdisciplinary research through inter-university, intra-university and university-industry collaborations. Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has got faculty/Instructors who are not only qualified in terms of their specialization in various fields but many of them have diverse industry backgrounds as of part of their professional experience apart from academics. This in fact helps University to focus on consultancy across industries/cross functional areas of business/institutions/research organisations specifically involved in development of skill ecosystem. Keeping in mind the intellectual strength of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, is keen to grow awareness about the innovative research of commercial value and the need for collaboration with other organizations for mutual benefits. The Consultancy rules have been formulated to provide guidance to the Faculty/ Departments/Centres, etc. and other Professionally/Technically well qualified employees of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, interested in the consultancy work. The Skill University Consulting Policy will help in formulating the norms for consultancy work that will help in developing the liaison between institutions, faculties, different industries, commercial organisations, government agencies and individual interest user of technical expertise available in the University. The detailed policies/guidelines shall be developed by the University for the aforementioned areas as well as for other areas relevant to the University.

[PAGE 109]
108 21 ORDINANCE XXI ACADEMIC COSTUMES (Under Section 23 (Schedule Section 16) of SVSU Act) 1. In these rules, academic costumes mean the costume prescribed in Clause-4 hereunder. 2. Full academic costume shall be worn by all the members of Court, Executive Council, Skill Council and all graduates of the University, and may be worn by all graduates of other Universities at the Convocation. 3. If a member of the Court, Executive Council and Skill Council, is a graduate of any other University, he may wear either the costume of his degree, or the costume to which he is entitled as a member. 4. Members of the Court, Executive Council, Skill Council and graduates of the University are entitled to wear academic costumes as follows: S. No. Designation Academic Costume Colour of Patkas/Stole with University insignia Dress Code 1 Chancellor VVIP sash of Maroon velvet with green border, golden lace, jhalar and two University logos, and Khadi Jacket (to be provided by the University) For Men: White Colour full sleeves Shirt and white Trouser with black shoes and white socks. OR White Pyjama, White Kurta and black shoes/sandals. For Women: Cream Colour golden boarder Saree with half sleeves blouse of cream colour and black shoes/sandals. OR White Kameejk with red boarder, white Salwar, white Dupatta, black shoes/sandals. 2 Vice Chancellor VVIP sash of Maroon velvet with green border, golden lace, jhalar and two University logos, and Khadi Jacket (to be provided by the University) 3 Chief Guest VVIP sash of Maroon velvet with green border, golden lace, jhalar and two University logos, and Khadi Jacket (to be provided by the University) 4 Registrar VVIP sash of Maroon velvet with green border, golden lace, jhalar and two University logos, and Khadi Jacket (to be provided by the University) 5 Honoris causa VVIP sash of orange velvet with green border golden lace, jhalar and two University logos, and Khadi Jacket (to be provided by the University)

[PAGE 110]
109 S. No. Designation Academic Costume Colour of Patkas/Stole with University insignia Dress Code 6 Member of University Authorities Sash of golden satin with green border and 1 inch of golden lace, jhalar, two University logos (Machine Embroidery) (to be provided by the University) For Men: White Colour full sleeves Shirt and white Trouser with black shoes and white socks. OR White Dhoti/Pyjama, White Kurta and black shoes/sandals. For Women: Cream Colour golden boarder Saree with half sleeves blouse of cream colour and black shoes/sandals. OR White Kameej with red boarder, white Salwar, white Dupatta, black shoes/sandals. NOTE: The Convocation Dress will be managed at their own. 7 Deputy & Assistant Registrars Orange with Silver Lining + Teachers & Staff on duty (to be provided by the University)

[PAGE 111]
110 S. No. Designation Academic Costume Colour of Patkas/Stole with University insignia Dress Code 8 For Doctorate Degree Maroon with Golden Lining (two University logo) For Boys: White Shirt full sleeves and white pant with black colour belt and black shoes with white socks. OR White Kurta, white Pyjama and black shoes with white socks/sandals. For Girls: White Sarees with red border, half sleeves white blouse and black leather shoes/sandals. OR White Kameej with red boarder, white Salwar, white Dupatta, black shoes/sandals. 9 Degree Green with Golden Lining (two University logo) 10 degree Grey with Golden Lining (two university logo)

[PAGE 112]
111 1 Preliminaries An academic year shall consist of two semesters (odd & even) inclusive of the period of examination and semester break. This Ordinance shall apply to the Programmes offered by this University. The award levels will lead to Certificate/Diploma/Advanced Diploma/Degree. S. No. Entry Level Award Duration Normal Duration After 8th Class 1 After 8th Std. L1 Certificate One Year 1 2 After 9th Std. L2 Certificate One Year 2 3 After 10th Std. L3 Certificate One Year 3 4 After 11th Std. L4 Advance Certificate One Year 4 5 After 12th Std. L5 Diploma One Year (L5) 5 After 10th Std. D.Voc. Three Years (L3 to L5) 6 After Diploma L6 Advance Diploma Two Years 6 7 After Advanced Diploma L7 Degree (B.Voc.) Three/Four Years 7 8 After Graduation L8 Post Graduate Degree One Year 8 9 After B.Voc L9 Degree (M.Voc.) Two Years 10 10 After Post Graduation L10 Ph.D Three Years (Min) including pre Ph.D course work 13 Eligibility: The eligibility criteria for admission to each programme, fee structure, academic calendar, scheme of studies and examinations, examination schedule, sports calendar and cultural activity calendar etc. for the academic year shall be published in the prospectus as well as on the University website. 2 Short-Term Programme The University need to organize industry and sector specific short-term skill programmes for those job roles which are heavily populated and largely unrecognized on the skill landscape. This effort needs to be made largely with following intentions in mind: Chapter II

[PAGE 113]
112 Inclusion of a large number of workforce which lies in unrecognized and unorganized sector. Impart technical and skill training to improve technical threshold and efficiency of the workforce. To promote inclusivity in sectors and job roles by training women and people from other marginalized sectors of the society. Offer opportunity of skill education and livelihood training to unemployed youth. To complement the overall vision of University of imparting skill education and training, undertaking research work in the sectors of economy agriculture, manufacturing, services the University needs to enroll the candidates in short term programmes (in the ration of 1:4 i.e. 4 short term programmes for every undergraduate programme) aligned with job roles and award them the certification at different levels. 3 Curriculum The curriculum in each of the years of the programme would be a combination of general education and skill development components. Curriculum details should be worked before introduction of the programmes. 3.1 Skill Development Components The focus of skill development components shall be to equip students with appropriate knowledge, practice and attitude so as to make them work ready. The skill development components should be relevant to the industries as per their requirements. The curriculum should necessarily embed within itself, the National Occupational Standards (NOSs) of specific job roles within the industry sector(s). This would enable the students to meet the learning outcomes specified in the NOSs. The overall design of the skill development component along with the job roles selected should be such that it leads to a comprehensive specialization in one or two domains. In case NOS is not available for a specific area/job role, the University/college should get the curriculum for this developed in consultation with industry experts. The curriculum should also focus on work-readiness skills in each of the subsequent years. Adequate attention needs to be given in curriculum design to practical work, on the job training, development of student portfolios and project work.

[PAGE 114]
113 3.2 General Education Component The general education component should adhere to the normal University standards. It should emphasize and offer programmes which provide holistic development. However, it should not exceed 40% of the total curriculum. Adequate emphasis should be given to language and communication skills. The University/college will develop the curriculum in consultation with industry. The industry representatives will be an integral part of the academic bodies of the University/college. While doing so, they should work towards aligning the skills components of the curriculum with the NOSs developed by the respective Sector Skill Councils. The practical/hands-on portion of the skills development components of the curriculum should be transacted normally in face to face mode, either within the institution or at a specified industry partner location. However, if due to the nature of the skill to be learnt, the industry prescribes its acquisition through blended or distance mode, the same may be followed. In nutshell, the emphasis should be on learning outcome and not the input and processes. The general education component of the curriculum may be transacted in any mode without compromising on quality. The specialization chosen by the University/college should be based on the existing/forecasted skill gaps in the industry. Relevance of programmes offered, along with that of the curriculum, is important. Therefore, monitoring, evaluation and updating of the curriculum needs to be done periodically in consultation with industry, keeping in view their requirements and changes in the NOSs. The University/college should incorporate this as a continuous and dynamic process in-built in their system. The University/college should appropriately use technology to improve the effectiveness of the delivery of programmes. 4 Industry Integrated Model The Campus-Industry Model draws its inspiration from the German Dual Education model. The system produces highly skilled, ready-to-work employees for the industry. In this model, cipation in training is far greater than traditional academic and vocational skilling initiatives and programmes. Students work and study at the industrial premises and industry-simulated University campus for the entire duration of On Job Training (OJT). The University intends to integrate National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) with framework, adopted by the University, provides an option of vertical and horizontal mobility across the levels. The rich learning provided through this model will not only make them job seekers but also job creators.

[PAGE 115]
114 The University intends forging joint-working relationships with those industries which have substantial capacity of in-house training, a keen intent to contribute towards creating a skilled talent pool and has a requisite requirement for absorbing this talent. The University shall collaborate with such industries for executing industry-specific training programmes, with industry as a key stakeholder. Industry would participate in design and deployment, providing technical, infrastructural and opportunity support to the University and students. 4.1 On-the-Job Training The On-the-Job-Training (OJT) is an important component of all programmes of the University. The University has signed MoUs with various Industries to provide OJT to students. OJT activity provides an opportunity for students, to gain accurate, sufficient knowledge and skills relevant to work habits necessary to become competitive in the market. The OJT also assists students in developing professionalism and interpersonal skills necessary for success at the workplace. The University needs to set up Skill Instructors/OJT Coordinators under Academic Team for seamlessly managing OJT & to drive industry engagement. The Academic Team will assign Skill Instructor/OJT Coordinators to enable, drive and monitor OJT implementation. The OJT should comprise of following elements: Calendar Reporting Formats: Daily Report, Weekly coaching Report, Attendance, Assessment Scores Student OJT Diary Mid-term and End term Viva Skill Knowledge Matrix/OJT Areas Internal Assessment Questionnaire & Report Job Roles "Student OJT Diary" of the University is daily report of students on the job activities, which are recorded daily by students and regularly monitored by the University Mentors, Industry Mentors and Experts. This diary is cumulative reflection of Skill Process, defined at University level, which results in learning and skill enhancement of students. OJT is key for attaining skills by creating experiential learning, by hands, while working on shop floor/work floor in real manufacturing environment/business eco system. (Language is more towards explaining the element/component than being prescriptive/definitive.)

[PAGE 116]
115 Students will record their daily work on "OJT Daily Report by Student" page for continuous 2 weeks. There will be a Self-Assessment by student after every 2 weeks. After this self- assessment, performance of student's is evaluated quantitatively as marking scheme with Maximum Marks = 100 (needs to be checked). Student is evaluated on 28 key skills parameters. This performance is evaluated by University Mentor and vetted by Industry Mentor and Project Coordinator of SVSU. There are 2 such assessments every month which are followed by a Monthly Assessment by Industry Mentor. Monthly Assessments by Industry Mentor is of 100 Marks and is of 5% value (Marks Equivalence = 17.5) in the Final OJT Marks. This process is repeated 4 times and thus equalizes to 20% value (Marks Equivalence = 70) of Final OJT Marks. 30% value of Final OJT Marks (Marks Equivalence = 105) are awarded for Attendance of student. Mid Term Via and End Term Via each are of 10% value (Marks Equivalence = 35) in Final OJT Marks. OJT accomplishment of every student is based on analysis of cumulative OJT attributes. This is recorded for every student with inputs from OJT Incharge, Programme Coordinator, Dean and Dean Academics Affairs. Diary. The process is expected to remain in Manual Mode of capturing the data for current and next Semester. (time with dates/session may be put here) Industry Partners are the key success enablers of the OJT and thus the regular feedback mechanism with them is planned and executed. Every Industry Partner has their own skill parameters to assess their resources. These parameters are studied to map with the actual OJT data being captured in the diary. New version of OJT will be released every time any new parameters is added. Dean Skill Faculty ensure Stakeholder Engagement for detailed study of Job Roles by Identifying industry leaders, Single Point of Contact (SPOC), Subject Specialist, Content Specialists, etc. to provide the necessary inputs for Job role development, curriculum and content development. The Industry orientation and direct understanding of job role to enable OJT pivoted curriculum aligned to industry standards and requirements. The Deans of Skill Faculties needs to Conduct a Shop floor readiness assessment for inducting Students for OJT prior to OJT deployment and make necessary changes to meet programme specifications Detailed Monitoring of OJT will be based on the Process manual approved. 5 Examination The examination for the odd semester examination should be held in the month of December/January and for the even semester in June/July month of the year.

[PAGE 117]
116 The date(s) of commencement of examination as well as the last date(s) for the receipt of the examination forms and fees shall also be notified by the Controller of Examinations on the website of the University. The examination shall be open to a candidate who: (i) has attended regularly the prescribed course of studies for the relevant semester examination in the department/affiliated institutions recognized by the University for different level of Awards. (ii) has his/her name submitted to the Controller of Examinations by the Chairperson/HOD/Programme Coordinator of the department (iii) has a good moral character. (iv) combined) and 90% attendance of On-the-Job-Training (OJT). A deficiency up to 5% may be condoned by The Chairperson of University Teaching or Skill Department/Principal of affiliated college/Institute. A further condonation of 5% in attendance may be allowed in severe/ Compassionate circumstances by the Vice- Chancellor on recommendation by Dean of concerned skill faculty. It is further clarified that the student sent by the University/Institute to participate/attend an event shall be treated as present during the days of event including journey days, if any, subject to the condition that the student must have attended at least 55% of the general education component classes ( . However, it may not be treated as a matter of right by the students. (v) The percentage of attendance of a candidate shall be calculated from the date of admission of the candidate or first day of start of semester. A candidate who has appeared and failed in one or more paper(s) in any semester shall be allowed to study and appear in the Subsequent Semesters. However, if students fail to clear his examination of subsequent semesters and passes OJT during the programme, he/she shall be awarded OJT certification only if he/she pass at least 50% subjects (theory and practical) of Semester Examinations taken together in 1st Year, 2nd Year and 3rd Year, respectively.

[PAGE 118]
117 In case of 1/2-year duration programme, the examinations for reappear in any subject(s) in the odd semester and that of in the even semester shall be held in the respective semesters along with the regular students. In addition to above, examination for reappear in the subjects in odd semesters will also be held during the even semesters examinations and vice-versa. In addition to above, examination for reappear in the subjects in odd semesters will also be held during the even semesters examinations and vice-versa for final year semester except students of 3 years course having reappear in 5th semester may be allowed to appear along with main examination of 6th semester and Vice-versa on such dates as may be fixed by the Controller of Examinations as per the schedule provided by the University. While re-appearing in the Examination the candidate shall be exempted from re-appearing in the paper(s), Seminar, Dissertation/Project Report, Training Report, Viva-Voce in which he/she has obtained pass marks including the marks for Internal Assessment. The amount of examination fee to be paid by a candidate for each semester shall be as prescribed by the University from time to time. The medium of instructions and Examination shall ordinarily be English except or otherwise specified by the Skill Council. The question papers will be set in English, expect or otherwise specified by the board of studies concerned and approved by the Skill Council. Candidates shall be examined according to the scheme of examination and syllabus as approved by the BoS/Skill Council from time to time. The courses of study and the subjects of examinations shall be approved by the Skill Council of the University from time to time. The examination will be as follows: i. There will be two components of examination: internal and external. Every course will have marks as per the scheme of the Programme. ii. Course may have both practical as well theory component as per the scheme in such cases 50% marks will be assigned to theory and 50% mark to the practical exam as stated in the scheme with its credits. iii. In case of theory examinations, the 70% will be awarded on the basis of end semester examination and 30% will be awarded on the basis of continuous internal assessment.

[PAGE 119]
118 iv. In case of practical the 30% will be awarded on the basis of end semester examination and 70% will be awarded on the basis of continuous internal assessment. v. The Assessment for 40% General education component will be assessed by SVSU & 60% Skill Enhancement Component will be assessed by SVSU/Industry partner or Jointly. The internal evaluation of OJT will be done by the Concerned Industry where the student has undergone the training programme, whereas, the end semester evaluation of OJT will be through the recognized assessor on the panel of SVSU. Marks Distribution for Theory Examination Total Marks End Semester Exam (Marks) Internal Assessment (Marks) Internal Assessment (30%) Attendance Marks (10%) Class Performance (Assignment Classes) Marks (5%) Presentation Marks (5%) Class test Marks (10%) 100 70 30 10 5 5 10 50 35 15 5 2.5 2.5 5 Marks Distribution in case of Practical Examination Total Mark s End Semeste r Exam (Marks) Internal Assessmen t (Marks) Internal Assessment (70%) Attendanc e Marks (10%) Class Performanc e Marks (20%) Presentatio n Marks (10%) Mid- term Viva Mark s File Work Mark s (10% ) Interna l End Sem Viva Marks (10%)

[PAGE 120]
119 (10% ) 100 30 70 10 20 10 10 10 10 50 15 35 5 10 5 5 5 5 OJT Assessment by Industry Partner Internal (70%): Marks distribution of OJT & Attendance/ Project Integrated Training / Industrial Project aligned with NSQF Level, Mid-term Viva and End-term Viva Total Marks 100% External Marks (30%) Internal Marks (70%) Internal Marks Distribution OJT Performance & Attendance (Marks) 1st (5%) 2nd (5%) 3rd (5%) 4th (5%) Attendance (30%) Midterm Viva Marks (10%) Report and End term viva Marks (10%) 350 105 245 17.5 17.5 17.5 17.5 105 35 35 OJT Assessment The assessment of OJT will be arranged by the examination branch by the empaneled assessor approved by Chairman of Board of Studies. 5.1 Grading system For the award of grades in a subject, all component-wise evaluation shall be done in marks. The marks would be converted to grades as per the guidelines given below: Award of Grades Based on Absolute Marks

[PAGE 121]
120 5.1.1 The University will follow system of grading for all (irrespective of no. of students) based on absolute marks (after applying moderation if any) as given below: 5.1.2 To pass in each semester examination, a candidate must obtain at least: (i) 40% marks in each written paper (End Semester Examination); (ii) 40% marks in the Sessional/ Practical work (Project, Seminar, Internal assessment Test, Viva-Voce examination etc.); and (iii) 40% in aggregate of sessional and end semester theory examinations for each theory and practical subject provided that a candidate, who fails to obtain the requisite marks in aggregate of sessional and end semester theory examination, shall be required to reappear in the concerned subject in the subsequent theory/practical examination(s) subject to clause 6(iv). Such candidates will not be required to repeat the sessional (internal assessment) works. marks of sessional (internal assessment) and major test/practical examination. v. SGPA of 4.0 vi Where a course is evaluated on the basis of sessional (internal assessment) marks only i.e. there is no end-semester examination, the candidate will be required to secure at least 40% marks to pass the course. Marks Grade Grade Point Category 90-100 O 10 Outstanding A+ 9 Excellent A 8 Very good B+ 7 Good B 6 Above Average C 5 Average P 4 Pass <40 F 0 Fail Absent AB 0 Absent

[PAGE 122]
121 vii A candidate who fails to obtain the requisite marks/grade in any course shall be required to appear in the concerned course in the subsequent examination(s) as per the clause 5.1.2.iii & (iv). NOTE: A student obtaining Grade F shall be considered failed and will be required to reappear in the examination. The F grade denotes poor performance, i.e. failing a subject (or subject component). A student passing grade is obtained, within the stipulated time of completion of that programme. If any student, who is otherwise eligible for appearing in the semester examination as per the ordinance, but he/she is unable to appear in the semester examination then he /she will be time along with regular students and he /she will be awarded the grade as per grade system explained above. AP/AF Grade These grades are awarded to qualifying/Non-Credit subject(s) (as per scheme supplied by concerned departments). The candidate will not be eligible for award of degree without qualifying these courses. 5.1.3 Provided that a candidate will be allowed to stay for maximum period at different levels mentioned below of his admission failing which he will be deemed to be unfit for the course and shall not be allowed to appear as a regular student or as an ex-student unless has been otherwise allowed by the Skill Council of the University. Sr. No. Level Award Duration (Maximum Allowed to Complete the Course) 1 L1 Certificate 2 Years 2 L2 Certificate 2 Years 3 L3 Certificate 2 Years 4 L4 Advance Certificate 2 Years

[PAGE 123]
122 5 L5 Diploma / (D.Voc.) 2 Years/5 Years 6 L6 Advance Diploma 2 Years 7 L7 Degree (B.Voc.) 6 Years 8 L8 Post Graduate Diploma 2 Years 9 L9 Degree (M.Voc.) 4 Years 10 L10 Ph.D 6 Years The candidate admitted to the Course shall not be allowed to pursue any other course except certificate course in any Indian or Foreign Language or computer application being conducted by this University on part-time basis in the evening with prior permission of the University otherwise his candidature for the course will be cancelled forthwith. The Controller of Examinations shall publish the result and issue Detailed-Marks-Cards as soon as possible after the declaration of the result of the Examination. Every candidate admitted to the course shall be required to undergo 6-8 weeks Corporate Training/Corporate Profile Presentation/On Job Training during each Semester examination, in an Industrial/Commercial/Co-operative Institution whether in Private, Public, Cooperative, Joint Sectors approved by the Director of the Institute subject to the scheme approved for the courses. The successful candidates after passing Semesters examinations of the Course will be awarded certificate/diploma/ advance diploma. Post graduate diploma/Degree as per examination ordinance. At the end of each semester examination, the COE shall publish the result, provided that in a case where candidate who was permitted to take examination for higher semester but has not cleared the lower semester examination his result for the higher semester examination will be declared provisionally. Each successful candidate shall be issued a Detailed Marks Card of the result on having passed the semester examination. The provision and scheme for the examination will be dependent on the changes that are made in the examination Ordinance of the University. 5.2 Eligibility for the promotion - A Candidate shall be eligible for Promotion to next semester even if has failed in all previous semesters.

[PAGE 124]
123 6 Stipend will be given during the OJT/Internship/Industrial Training as per the industry rules/policies. 7 Merit Awards Following Awards and certificates will be given to overall high percentage holders. (The merit will be prepared on the basis of overall marks in the programme, curricular activities, Sport activities, attendance record and participation in other activities): Chancellor Award (Trophy, certificate and a cash award of Rs 31,000/-) Vice-Chancellor Award (Trophy, certificate and a cash award of Rs 21,000/-) The awards shall be distributed for undergraduate (B.Voc, D.Voc, BBA, B.tech) and post- graduation programmes (M.Voc, MBA, M.Tech) i.e. one for undergraduate programmes and one for post-graduation programmes. The following shall be the criteria for the distribution of awards: 1. A student must have obtained 90% attendance and 65% marks in aggregate in their undergraduate/post-graduation degree to be eligible for the awards. 2. Weightage for awarding the medals and certificate shall be as given below: Academic Performance- 60% Cultural Activities- 10% Sports Activities- 10% Other Activities*- 10% 3. The weightage of Academic performance may be calculated as Academic Performance= [(Marks Percentage- NOTE: a. The candidate must have passed the examination in the regular period of the programme in first attempt/sitting semester and year wise i.e. there has been no reappear in any subject (s)/ course (s) during the period of his/ her study. However, if a candidate passes the subject(s) after re-evaluation of the main examination then it shall be treated as single attempt. Such re-evaluated marks shall be considered for ascertaining the award of Gold Medal. b. The candidate who got re-appear on account of absence in any paper/subject in exam will not be eligible for award of gold medal

[PAGE 125]
124 4. The performance of the students in activities other than academics may further be given weightage based upon the participation of a student in the event as under: International Level (50%) National Level (30%) State Level (20%) 5. Student securing the highest marks based on the above-mentioned criteria shall be awarded the Chancellor Award (Trophy, certificate and a cash award of Rs 31,000/-) 6. Student securing the second highest marks based on the above-mentioned criteria shall be awarded the Vice Chancellor Award (A cash award of Rs 21,000/-) 7. The specifications of the medals will be approved by the Vice-Chancellor 7.1 Powers Relating to Distribution of Awards All powers relating to distribution of awards shall vest with the Vice Chancellor. However, the Vice Chancellor may delegate all or any of his powers as he/she deemed proper to the competent authority or to the Awards Committee as the case may be or any functionary of the University. 7.2 Awards Committee Without prejudice to any provision in the Act or Statute, there shall be a Awards Committee comprising of the following members: i. Dean of Skill Faculty- Chairman- Nominated by Vice Chancellor ii. iii. One Associate professor- to be nominated by Vice Chancellor iv. AR academics- Member Secretary Subject to any powers conferred by the Act and the Statute on the Vice Chancellor, the Committee shall take cognizance of all matters relating to distribution of awards to the students of the University The said Committee shall, make such rules as it deems fit for the performance of its functions and these rules and any other orders under them shall be binding on all the students of the University.

[PAGE 126]
125 The recommendations for the distribution of awards shall be submitted to the Vice Chancellor whose decision will be final and binding. However, the Vice Chancellor, if he/she is of the opinion that the case merits' review, may refer the case back to the Awards Committee for reconsideration. Appeal against the decision may be submitted to the Vice Chancellor who may refer the same to the Awards Committee for their reconsideration and the decision taken by the Vice Chancellor on appeal shall be final and binding. Half of the total members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the said Committee.


--- DOCUMENT: brochure_2024.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
INFORMATION BROCHURE 2024-25

[PAGE 2]
Our Mission is to design, develop and deliver, need based, outstanding skill development training for individuals that fosters their personal and professional growth and empowers them with relevant skills and practical experience required to excel in ever evolving global landscape of jobs. Our commitment lies in unlocking their full potential for sustainable employability and livelihood opportunities through high-quality educators, instructors and a world class training infrastructure aligned with industry requirements and international standards. About SVSU Vision Mission Leading through Innovation and Inclusivity Learning and Growth Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology Skill Department of Automotive Studies Skill Department of Construction Management & Technology Skill Department of Green Technology Skill Department of CS/IT Skill Department of Industry 4.0 Skill Department of Plastic Technology Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research Skill Department of Management Studies Skill Department of Banking and Finance. Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality Skill Department of Agriculture Skill Department of Horticulture Skill Faculty of Agriculture Skill Department of Language and Culture Skill Department of Life Sciences & Health Care Skill Department of Psychology & Behavioral Sciences Skill Department of Security and Surveillance Skill Department of Science and Computation Skill Department of Sports and Yoga Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities SVSU Skill Faculty Departments: Departments: Departments: Departments:

[PAGE 3]
Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing # Eligibility Criteria 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 60 Diploma in Computer Engineering Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 60 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) Industrial Electronics # Eligibility Criteria 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30+30 Diploma Mechanical Engineering (Tool & Die) Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 30 Diploma Computer Generative AI / Cyber Security** Eligibility Criteria 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 30 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Draughtsmanship (Civil) # Eligibility Criteria 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Solar Technology Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCM) OR 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld OR 10th plus ITI (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 30 Programs Offered by SFET

[PAGE 4]
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Science Engineering (AI & ML) Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Engineering Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 4 YEARS SEATS 60 NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 4 YEARS SEATS 60 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCM) OR 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld OR 10th plus ITI (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 +1YEARS SEATS 30+30 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Robotics and Automation Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCM) OR 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld OR 10th plus ITI (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) MINIMUM AGE 16 NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 +1YEARS SEATS 30 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechatronics Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCM) OR 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld OR 10th plus ITI (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3+1 YEARS SEATS 30 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 4 YEARS SEATS 30

[PAGE 5]
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Electrical Engineering Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robotics and Automation Eligibility Criteria As per AICTE/HSTES norms Eligibility Criteria B.Tech./B.E. in ECE/CSE/IT/Mechanical/M.Sc. (Electronics/IT)/MCA or other related disciplines from any recognized University/Institution with a minimum of 55% marks or equivalent grade (45% marks or equivalent grade for Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes). GATE qualiﬁed/Industry experience candidates will be given preference. NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 4 YEARS SEATS 30 NSQF LEVEL 7 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 60 Eligibility Criteria 10th or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc) Ofce Management # Undergraduate Certicate in Food Production & Traditional Sweets # Eligibility Criteria 12th or 10 plus 2 years of experience or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 1 YEARS SEATS 20 Undergraduate Diploma in Airlines Management**# Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NSQF LEVEL 5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design # Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCM) OR 10+2 with Maths and L4 certificate in relevant field OR 10th plus ITI (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 NSQF LEVEL 7 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 18 PROGRAMS OFFERED BY SFMSR

[PAGE 6]
B.Com. ( Hons./Hons. with Research) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 in Commerce OR 10+2 in other stream with Mathematics with minimum 50% marks OR Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 3/4 YEARS SEATS 60 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Management (Financial Services) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 30 Bachelor of Hotel Management Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NSQF LEVEL 7 DURATION 4 YEARS MINIMUM AGE 17 SEATS 60 Bachelor of Hotel Management NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 4 YEARS SEATS 30 Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. ( 2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 9 DURATION 2 YEARS MINIMUM AGE 20 SEATS 20 BBA - BPM and Analytics (Hons. / Hons. With Research) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. ( 2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3/4 YEARS SEATS 30 BBA (Retail Management) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NSQF LEVEL 5.5/6 DURATION 3/4 YEARS SEATS 60 BBA (Retail Management) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NSQF LEVEL 5.5/6 DURATION 3/4 YEARS SEATS 60 Industry Consortium

[PAGE 7]
MBA Eligibility Criteria Graduation with 50% marks NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 Executive MBA Eligibility Criteria Graduation / B.Voc and 2 years of industry experience NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 40 MBA Business Analytics Eligibility Criteria Graduation with 50% marks NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 M.Voc. Management (HRM) Eligibility Criteria B.Voc./ Graduation with minimum 50% marks NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 20 MBA (Working Professional)** Eligibility Criteria Graduation with 3 Years experience NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 20 M.Voc-Management Banking & Finance Eligibility Criteria Graduation/BVoc with 50% NSQF LEVEL 7 DURATION 3 YEARS MINIMUM AGE 17 SEATS 25 M.Voc-Management Banking & Finance Eligibility Criteria Graduation/BVoc with 50% NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 20

[PAGE 8]
Undergraduate Certicate in Graphics and communication Design Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 Undergraduate Certicate in Japanese Language # Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 Undergraduate Certicate in Music (Folk Art - Banchari/Instrumental/Vocal # Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) # Eligibility Criteria 12th or Equivalent NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 YEAR SEATS 30 B.Voc. (Medical Laboratory Technology) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 (PCB) OR 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma in relevant ﬁeld for Lateral Entry in 2nd Yr. NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 4 YEAR SEATS 30 Undergraduate Certicate German Language # Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 4.5 DURATION 1.5 YEAR SEATS 30 PROGRAMS OFFERED BY SFASH

[PAGE 9]
B.Voc (Public Services) Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 YEAR SEATS 30 Udaan IAS Academy Faridabad M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) Eligibility Criteria B.Voc. MLT/ B.Sc. MLT/ BMLS / BMLT NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 20 B. Sc Clinical Psychology** Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NSQF LEVEL 5.5 DURATION 3 YEARS SEATS 30 PG Diploma Criminal Forensics** Eligibility Criteria Any Graduate NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 PG Diploma Public Policy** Eligibility Criteria Any Graduate NSQF LEVEL 6 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 M.Voc. (Public Health) Executive Eligibility Criteria Graduate degree in Medicine/ AYUSH/ Dental/ Nursing/ Pharmacy/Health Sciences/ Physiotherapy/ Occupational Therapy/ LifeSciences/BSW/ MSW with minimum 50% marks NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEAR SEATS 20 M Sc Clinical Psychology** Eligibility Criteria Graduate with Psychology NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEAR SEATS 20

[PAGE 10]
M.Sc. (Geo-Informatics) Bachelor's degree in the ﬁelds of Geography / Environmental Science / Forestry / Chemistry / Physics / Geology / Geophysics / Mathematics / Oceanography/ Agriculture/ Atmospheric Sciences/ Climatology/ Information Science/ Computer Science/ Disaster Management/ Engineering / Town Planning / Architecture / Botany/ Zoology/ allied disciplines with at least 50% marks or OR Masters in Geography with at least 50% marks or equivalent grade in aggregate NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEAR SEATS 20 * Industry partners are tentative and may be changed as per availability/consent of Industry Partner. * Undergraduate degree of 3 Years may further be extended to 4th years. 4th year will be dedicated to Honours with research/Honours Degree. ** To be offered from Gurugram Campus # Provision for vertical progression to UG Degree/Diploma subject to conditions of strength & infrastructure. Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.) Horticulture # Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Agriculture Master of Vocation (M. Voc.) Agriculture Eligibility Criteria 10th Pass OR Equivalent Eligibility Criteria 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Eligibility Criteria B Voc. Agriculture OR Graduation in any discipline with 50% marks NSQF LEVEL 4 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 30 NSQF LEVEL 5.5/6 DURATION 3+1* YEARS SEATS 30 NSQF LEVEL 6.5 DURATION 2 YEARS SEATS 20 M Phil Clinical Psychology** Eligibility Criteria PG in Psychology NSQF LEVEL 7 DURATION 1 YEAR SEATS 20 PROGRAMS OFFERED BY SFA Programs- All Regular Certificate/Diploma/Degree/Masters programs shall be available in RPL Mode for experienced working professionals meeting the eligibility criteria as per regular programs. Min. 3 years’ experience in the relevant field is mandatory for applying under RPL based programs. Duration- Depending upon the credits exempted during pre-assessment.Fee- Based on credits and duration of Bridge Program Industry Partnership- Open to all Industries RPL Based Programs Eligibility Criteria

[PAGE 11]
Industry Data Entry Operator Python Programmer Smart Electrician Smart Plumber Circuit Design & Simulation CNC Part Programming and Simulation (Module 1) & CNC Programming & Machining (Module 2) SHORT TERM PROGRAMS OFFERED Duration : 6 Months Duration : 4 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration Module 1: 90 Hrs Module 2: 120Hrs + project Duration 80 Hrs. + Project Duration 80 Hrs. + Project Duration : 1 Months Fees : Rs. 8000 /- Industry Partner : SVSU Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- Fees : Rs. 10,000 /-

[PAGE 12]
SHORT TERM PROGRAMS OFFERED Emergency Medical Technician General Duty Assistant Home Health Aide Phlebotomy Technician Statistics and Data Science Psychological First Aid Guidance Counselling Psychology Music-Instrumental Yoga Prashikshak Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- English and Professional Skills Fees : Rs. 12,000 /- Fees : Rs. 20,000 /- Fees : Rs. 20,000 /- Fees : Rs. 20,000 /- Fees : Rs. 10,000 /- Fees : Rs. 3000 /- Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 6 Months

[PAGE 13]
SHORT TERM PROGRAMS OFFERED Provision of multipoint entry and exit. Multiple entry through lateral entry. *Common Training Norms of Government of India as applicable from time to time + Registration + Assessment Charges. ** Industry partners are tentative and may be change as per availability/consent of industry partner *** Program is applicable to the employees of the industry. Organic Grower Certificate in Korean Language Freshwater Aquaculture Mushroom Producer Fees : Rs. 12,000 /- Fees : Rs. 6000 /- Fees : Rs. 6000 /- Fees : Rs. 6000 /- Business Development Representative Short Term Programme for Multi Cuisine Commi Short Term Programme for Housekeeping Associate Tally Fees : Rs. 6000 /- Fees : Rs. 3000 /- Fees : Rs. 12,000 /- Fees : Rs. 12,000 /- Online Advertisement Specialist Research Associate (Management) Short Term Programme for Food and Beverage Server Fees : Rs. 12,000 /- Fees : Rs. 3000 /- Graduation Fees : Rs. 3000 /- Graduation with minimum 50% marks Duration : 4 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 4 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 6 Months Duration : 3 Months Duration : 4 Months

[PAGE 14]
Skill Faculty Name of Dean Name of Skill Departments Name of the Chairpersons / Incharge / Coordinator SFA Prof. Joy Kuriakose Skill Department of Agriculture dean.academics@svsu.ac.in registrar@svsu.ac.in Dr. Harish Kumar Skill Department of Horticulture SFASH Dr. (Prof) Randhir Singh Rathore Skill Department of Language and Culture Dr. Nakul Skill Department of Life Sciences & Health Care Dr. Mohit Shrivastva Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences Prof. Rishipal Skill Department of Science and Computation Dr. Mohit Shrivastva Skill Department of Sports and Yoga Dr. Bhawna Rooprai SFET Prof. Ashish Shrivastava Skill Department of CS/IT Prof. Usha Batra Skill Department of Automotive Studies Dr. Sanjay Singh Rathore Skill Department of Construction Management and Technology Prof. A. K. Watal Skill Department of Green Technology Prof. Suresh Kumar Skill Department of Industry 4.0 Prof. Kulwant Singh SFMSR Prof. Rishipal Skill Department of Management Studies Dr. Shruti Gupta Skill Department of Banking and Finance. Dr. Samarth Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality Dr. Savita Sharma Important Officers: 1. Proctor : Prof. Suresh Kumar (proctor@svsu.ac.in) 2. Chief Warden : Prof. Rishipal (chw@svsu.ac.in) 3. Dean IQAC : Prof. Ashish Shrivastava (iqac@svsu.ac.in) 4. Dean, R&D/Dean Student Welfare(DSW) : Prof. Kulwant Singh(dsw@svsu.ac.in) 5. Dean Corporate Engagement : Prof. Usha Batra (dean.cre@svsu.ac.in) 6. Associate Dean Affiliation : Dr. Ravinder Kumar(affiliations@svsu.ac.in) 7. Director COE : Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh (director.coe@svsu.ac.in) 8. Dy. Librarian : Dr. J. K. Dubey (jitendradubey@svsu.ac.in) 9. Assistant Registrar, Academic Affairs : Dr. Rajesh Kumar (academics.affair@svsu.ac.in) 10. Superintendent, R & S : Mr. Shakeel Ahmad (registration.scholarship@svsu.ac.in) LEADERSHIP TEAM

[PAGE 15]
Our Esteemed Partners

[PAGE 16]
Website : www.svsu.ac.in Contact : 9306095464, 8708568908, 9253364547, 9253394547, 9253224547 Email ID : admissions@svsu.ac.in, info@svsu.ac.in


--- DOCUMENT: Consultancy-Policy.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Consultancy Policy Shri Vishwakarma Skill University ConsultancyServices- Skill Training Public and Private Organizations Ministry and Govt. Organizations Other National and International Agencies +91-0124-2746800 www.svsu.ac.in

[PAGE 2]
GUIDELINES FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY (HARYANA) - INDIA September, 2022

[PAGE 3]
[NO EXTRACTABLE TEXT FOUND]

[PAGE 4]
1. About the University Shri Vishwakarma Skill University is a State university established under Act 25 of 2016. The objective to establish the Skill University is to facilitate and promote skill, entrepreneurship development, skill based education and research in the emerging areas of manufacturing, information technology, textile, design, logistics and transportation, automation, agriculture, maintenance, etc. and to raise skill level in various fields related to these areas. The campus of the University is being set-up at Dudhola village in Palwal district. The university is classified in 4 Faculties i.e. Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology, Skill Faculty of Management Studies & Research, Skill Faculty of Humanities & Applied Sciences and Skill Faculty of Agriculture for coordinated teaching in particular and effective governance in general. The University at present offers regular programmes on Campus including D. Voc. B.Voc, B.Tech, M.Voc., MBA, Post Graduate Diploma, Skill Diploma, and Skill Certificate programmes. These programmes stand approved by the Skill Council and Executive Council of University. The University is recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) under Section 2(f) for recognition of degrees. 2. Definitions 2.1 Chairperson: Chairperson of Skill Department of University 2.2 Competent Authority: Vice Chancellor of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 2.3 Dean: Dean of respective Skill Faculty of University 2.4 Dean (RC): Dean of Research and Consultancy 2.5 Department: Skill Department of University 2.6 Faculty: Skill Faculty of University 2.7 Employee: (Teaching and Non-teaching staff of the University) 2.8 Principal Consultant: Any faculty member of Departments/Faculty, and other Professionally/Technically well qualified regular employees of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 2.9 Co-Principal Consultant: Any faculty member of Departments/Faculty, and other Professionally/Technically well qualified regular/contractual employees of Shri

[PAGE 5]
Vishwakarma Skill University. 2.10 University – University means Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 2.11 Teaching staff – All Assistant professors, Associate professors and Professors of the University 2.12 Non-Teaching staff: All other employees apart from teaching staff, who are professionally/technically well qualified employees of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 3. General 3.1 The University encourages academic staff and other employees to undertake the consultancy assignments. 3.2 Consultancy Services may be offered to Public and Private sector/Corporate, Industries, Service Sector, Govt. Departments, Non-Profit Institutions, Ministries and other National and International agencies/organizations in the area of expertise available in the University. 3.3 No ceiling limit has been prescribed for undertaking consultancy projects /assignments to be undertaken by the University/Individuals. 3.4 University will have right to engage consulting agencies/Industries/Govt. Organizations/ and educational institutions for the consulting projects. For execution of such type of consultancy, terms & conditions will be decided by SVSU and associated organization. Consultancy Service Committee (CSC) dully approved by Competent Authority and Chaired by Dean (RC) will represent SVSU. 3.5 If the concerned department initiates any consulting work with Industry for Programme designing, execution and training, the department will facilitate for signing the MoU between the University and other stake holders. 3.6 The services offered shall be along the lines of 'Professional Services' and will hence carry with them obligations and ethical requirements associated with such services as indicated in the Standard Terms and Conditions (Annexure-I). 3.7 The services of permanent/contractual /outsourced employees/ students of the University will be utilized for the execution of the consultancy projects provided it does not affect at any cost their primary functions and responsibilities to the University. 3.8 Each consultancy assignment/project will have Principal Consultant. The Principal Consultant must ensure, before taking consultancy assignment, that machines/equipment to be used in the project are in proper working condition. Any equipment owned by the University and to be used outside the university, in

[PAGE 6]
case of damage to the equipment, while use and transportation, Principal Consultant shall be responsible for the damages and will pay for the same to the University. 3.9 Consultant(s) shall disclose in writing at the time of submission of consultancy project proposal, the existence of any relationship between him / her and the client 3.10 The Principal Consultant(s) will have the right to publish the work carried out by him/her out of the consultancy work after taking prior permission of the client. 3.11 Normally the agreed charges of the consultancy project are to be deposited by the client, in full, before the consultancy work commences. In cases where the partial charges are to be deposited in advance, the payment schedule shall be mentioned in the project proposal and shall be approved by competent authority as recommended by Consultancy Service Committee. The full payment of the total contracted amount shall be released by client within one month of completion of consultancy project. 3.12 In case of any accident or loss to the human resource during the consultancy work, the compensation as per policy of the University shall be applicable. 3.13 A consultancy project is normally expected to be closed soon after the date of completion as stipulated in the original project proposal, unless an extension has been sought and granted. The completion certificate should be taken from the client on his letterhead by the Principal Consultant. 3.14 Consultant(s) or the clients cannot use the University name or the fact that they are affiliated with the University, in a manner that (i) suggests that the University approves or disapproves of a product or service provided by a profit, non-profit or governmental entity or (ii) suggests that the University has performed research or issued research findings when it has not done so, or misleadingly states the results of University research for consultancy or (iii) may be interpreted to communicate the official position of the University on any issue of public interest. 3.15 In case of any disagreement, conflict and/or dispute between the client and University / University and consultant(s) / Consultant(s) and the client(s) or any other party involved directly or indirectly at any stage of a Consultancy project will be resolved in consultation with Dean (RC) and the Vice- Chancellor to ensure an expeditious removal of bottlenecks and smooth functioning of the project.

[PAGE 7]
4. Consultancy Project Categories Category I: Consultancy services which do not require university laboratory facility such as designs, proof checking, vetting of third-party designs, preparation of project reports, third party site visits, preparation of audit reports/skill-based study reports, and other similar assignments. Category II: Consultancy services include such assignment that require institute hardware/software facilities (Laboratory equipment/software) and similar assignments. University reserves the right to add categories for providing consultancy services 5. Principal Consultant and Co-Principal Consultant 5.1 There shall be a Principal Consultant for each consultancy project who will act as a team leader. There may/may not be a Co- Principal Consultant in consultancy project. 5.2 Any faculty member of Departments/Faculty, and other Professionally/Technically well qualified regular/contractual employees of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University may be nominated as Co-Principal Consultant. However, Principal Consultant will be a regular employee of the University. 5.3 In addition to the academic qualifications in the relevant field, the consultant(s) must possess expertise and proved credentials in the area of the consultancy work. 5.4 Consultancy projects are normally initiated by requests / enquiries from the Client directly to the University or by discussion between the Client and the Consultant(s). The enquiry directly received by the University will be forwarded to the concerned Dean of Faculty by Dean (RC) for nominations of Principal Consultant as per specified expertise, and existing commitments of the faculty members. The nominations thus received will be put before the Consultancy Services Committee for finalization of Principal Consultant. 5.5 If a Faculty member and any other Professionally & Technically well qualified regular employee of the university is directly approached by client for consultancy project then, he/she will be given preference to become the Principal Consultant. Such requests shall be forwarded to Dean (RC) through Dean of Faculty. 5.6 Notification of Principal Consultant will be issued by Dean (RC) after approval of Competent Authority. 5.7 No regular employee of the University will be allowed to submit a fresh consultancy project proposal as a Principal Consultant, when his retirement time is lesser than the

[PAGE 8]
duration of the consultancy work. However, a retiring employee may continue to work as Principal consultant or Co Principal Consultant with the approval of the competent Authority. 5.8 If the Principal Consultant leaves the University or proceeds on leave or not available for some reason (exigency / critical illness), the Dean (RC) on the recommendation of the Principal Consultant (if he/she is available) will appoint a new Principal Consultant in consultation with the client subject to the eligibility criteria of the consultancy rules. The new Principal Consultant will give an undertaking to complete the project in the remaining time with remaining funds to the Dean (RC) through Head of the department /Dean of Faculty. 5.9 In case the principal consultant resigns from the University, he/she has to give the notice of 15 days prior to his/her term to Dean (RC) through Head of department/Dean of Faculty. 6. Project Proposal 6.1 The Principal Consultant notified by Dean (RC) shall submit a detailed project proposal (as per the Performa at Appendix II) for the consultancy work through the respective Head of the department /Dean of Faculty to Dean (RC). 6.2 If the total cost of Consultancy project is less than or equal to Rs. 1,00,000/, the Dean (RC) will approve the proposal. The proposal with cost less than Rs. 20,000 will not fall under the purview of this policy. 6.3 For projects more than 1 lakh, the proposal shall be placed for screening before Consultancy Service Committee, The CSC may accept/reject/suggest to revise the proposal depending on its merit. The recommendations of the committee will be approved by the Vice-Chancellor. 6.4 The office of Dean (RC) will intimate the Principal Consultant through respective Head of the dept. / Dean of Faculty about the final decision on project proposal. 6.5 The Consultancy Services committee will consist of the following: 1. Dean (RC) Chairman 2. Dean of Faculty Concerned (in case of Teaching Staff) OR Registrar (in case of Non-Teaching Staff) Member 3. Head of the dept./office concerned Member 4. One faculty member to be nominated by Dean (RC) from (RC) cell Member 5. A.R. / D.R. (Accounts) Member 6. One Professor/Associate Professor from concerned department (Nominated by Concerned Dean) Member

[PAGE 9]
6.6 For large projects (> Rs. 10 Lakhs), the CS Committee shall review and assess the progress periodically (at least once in a year or twice in the total duration of the project) for timely completion of the projects. 6.7 The Principal Consultant shall submit the progress report quarterly to the office of Dean (RC). Also, he/ she shall present his/her annual progress invariably in front of the CSC. 7. Manpower 7.1 Hiring of casual staff/labour: The Principal Consultant can hire casual staff and or casual labour as per approved rates of the Institute/DC rate. 7.2 For hiring special skilled service, the Principal consultant may decide and pay as per the requirement of the consultancy services. The service under this category will be of purely on temporary and need based. The hiring of such staff should be through open advertisement on university website/ local newspaper. 7.3 Use of Existing Staff: Existing faculty member and regular/contractual/outsourced staff of Laboratory/office/ministerial staff who may be available without affecting Department schedule/work may be considered subject to the requirement of the project and availability of such staff. Such staff may be hired from any department as per the requirement by the Principal consultant. 7.4 Use of Existing Students: Students registered in Diploma/Undergraduate/post graduate/Ph.D. programs of the University can be engaged in the consultancy projects. Transparency to be ensured in selection of such students by Principal Consultant. The principal consultant must ensure that equal opportunity is given to all students. The Ph.D. and M.Tech./Master students shall be paid honorarium up to a maximum of Rs.6000/- and Rs.5000/- pm respectively. Diploma/Undergraduate students shall be paid honorarium up to a maximum of Rs 3000/-p.m. and 4000/- pm respectively. The students studying in certificate programs can also be engaged and stipend paid to such students shall be paid up to a maximum of Rs 2000/-p.m. 7.5 Outside Consultants: The Principal consultant with the prior approval of Vice Chancellor on recommendation of Dean (RC) may avail the services of individuals not in the Institute service, or government organization/private organizations as Consultants for any consultancy service. 8. Travel 8.1 The most expeditious and convenient mode of travel should be used to minimize period of absence from the Institute. All faculty members and non-faculty staff will be paid TA/DA as per SVSU norms. However, if there are deviations from the norms, prior approval of competent authority shall be mandatory for such cases. 8.2 Approval for domestic travel shall be accorded by Principal Consultant; whereas, for travel of Principal consultant prior approval of Dean (RC) is required. 8.3 The expenses incurred for carriage of an equipment in a car/suitable vehicle will also be covered under travel expenses.

[PAGE 10]
8.4 Advance for travel, if any, will be approved by the Dean (RC). 8.5 Payment of charges to travel agents for Ticket purchase assistance, Visa assistance, Insurance etc. shall be admissible. 8.6 If client has specified any specific condition(s) for travel under the project that shall be followed normally. 8.7 Approval of the competent Authority, through Dean (RC), will be required for all international travels. 9. Finance and Accounts 9.1 A separate bank account will be maintained for the financial transactions related to consultancy services. All payments related to Consultancy work will be received by the university under separate budget head “Consultancy Services”. The funds for consultancy work will be operated by Dean (RC) and Accounts officer of the university. 9.2 At the time of completion of a consultancy project, the Principal Consultant shall submit a copy of final report along with duly audited expenditure statement and completion certificate from the client in the office of Dean (RC). 9.3 The norms for calculation of various percentages for distribution of the total money received from client will be as follows:

[PAGE 11]
Item Consultancy Project Category -I Category –II Total money received from client G G Service Tax L L Total Contracted Amount (T) T = G-L T = G-L Total Expenditure* (E) E E Remaining Amount (R) R = T-E R = T-E University Share (U) U = 0.4R U = 0.6R Balance Amount for Distribution (D) D = R-U D = R-U Distribution of Amount D for all categories 0.10D amount will be disbursed among Dean (RC), Dean (concerned faculty) and Chairperson of department, accounts officer as proposed by Dean (RC) and approved by competent authority. For Principal Consultant and Co Principal Consultants (if any): A = 0.90D. Principal Consultant will get 60% of 0.90D and Co Principal Consultant will get 40% of 0.90D. In case of more than one Co Principal Consultant, the amount (40% of 0.90D) will be equally disbursed. 9.4 In all Consultancy projects, the money to be charged from the Client ‘G’ will be decided by the consultancy service committee including Principal Consultant. The consultancy projects under category II involve levy of usage charges of physical infrastructure/equipment/softwares. The Principal Consultant shall quote SVSU rates to be charged from the client. The rates so proposed by the Principal Consultant shall be negotiated and finalized by the CSC including the Principal Consultant. The committee must ensure that a reasonable income to university is ensured through such projects along with the recovery of depreciation cost of infrastructure. The fixation of rates by the committee may also vary depending on the nature as well as the quantum of work involved. 9.5 In case of Consultancy projects, the usage charges of technical infrastructure Computational facilities / Software / Hardware, etc.) and Physical infrastructure, etc. of the university shall form part of the University Share U. The usage charges cannot be more than 10% of G. 9.6 Total Expenditure (E) The total expenditure in the consultancy work should cover the following costs related to the project. The taxes will be applicable as per government rules. i. Travel expenses in connection with the consultancy work. ii. Salary/payment to labour, honorarium paid, payments to staff/faculty member, fee to the outside experts associated with consultancy project. iii. Expenditures on hospitality, stationary, material, preparation of project reports, consumables, Contingency. iv. Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel. v. Maintenance, calibration / recalibration of equipment / testing facilities required for consultancy work. vi. Field work charges vii. Any other costs considered appropriate.

[PAGE 12]
9.7 Distribution of University Share (U) The University Share (U) will be distributed between Institutional Development Fund (IDF), Professional Development Fund (PDF) and Student Development Fund (SDF) as per the norms provided in the table below. The Institutional Development Fund (IDF) will be used for the purpose of employee welfare schemes for employees of SVSU and development of infrastructure/labs in the department and the University respectively. While utilizing the IDF for infrastructure development/labs, preference will be given to the departments / office concerned which have contributed in generating funds through consultancy work. Professional Development Fund (PDF) is a performance-linked fund created for the employees of the University with the objective of supporting their professional needs. However, preference will be given to those Consultant(s) who have contributed in generating funds through their consultancy work. This fund will be utilized by the employees to attend conferences, pay membership subscription to professional societies, and purchase software, data base, computer and computer peripherals, etc. The SDF will be used to support the students for their course fee in the university, who do not have any earning member in the family or do not have any support for their studies at SVSU. The cases of such students should be approved by competent authority as recommend by Dean of concerned faculty. Distribution of University Share (U) Item IDF PDF SDF Consultancy under all categories 0.60U 0.20U 0.20U 9.8 In case any legal dispute arises between the consultant(s) and the client such that the consultant(s) are in any way, held responsible to make good the losses incurred by the client, such liability will be restricted to a maximum limit which will be calculated as follows: Maximum Liability = The total contracted amount (excluding Service Tax) charged for the consultancy project – the expenditure / liabilities on the project or as per order by the competent court. It is in the interest of the consultant(s) to bring this fact to the notice of the clients well in advance. The expenditure / liabilities as determined by the University will be calculated as the expenditure / liability till such date on which the client inform the consultant(s) in writing to stop work on the project for ongoing projects, or till the end of the project for completed projects. The expenditure will also include the remuneration paid to the supporting staff of the University. 9.9 The training programs to be conducted for semi-skilled/skilled manpower/ executive of the organizations shall fall under category of consultancy services, provided those are delivered beyond working hours of the university/on holidays/academic breaks. The university share (30% of the total cost of the estimated project) should be taken care while developing such program. Such training may be offered by any skill Faculty or the department of any skill Faculty.

[PAGE 13]
For training programs of semi-skilled/skilled manpower, the honorarium of Rs.500 per hour will be paid to the employee engaged for delivery of contents. For training programs of managerial/executive staff, the honorarium of Rs.1500 will be paid to the SVSU employee engaged for delivery of contents, and the honorarium paid to external experts can be maximum up to Rs 5000/- per hour. The Distribution of Amount D, if any, in this case will be: (i) 0.10D amount will be disbursed among Dean (concerned Faculty), Chairperson of concerned department and accounts officer equally as proposed by Dean (RC) and approved by competent authority. (ii) 0.10D shall be disbursed among employees who are involved in content development as proposed by Dean of concerned Faculty and approved by Dean (RC). (iii) 0.80D will be disbursed towards the concerned department/Faculty account which will be maintained separately. This department/Faculty fund will be utilized for the capacity building. The assessment and certification for training programs of semi-skilled/skilled manpower will be done by assessment and certification department of the University. The cost of such assessments shall be part of the expenditure (E) of project. For executive programs, the assessment and certification cost (if any) shall also be included in the expenditure (E) of the project. 10. Purchase All purchases / procurement under consultancy projects shall be made as per norms prevailing in the University. 11. Documentation Following documents will be maintained by the Principal Consultant through his team members and produced as and when required. a) Attendance Records: Attendance record of the Consultant(s), supporting staff etc. with man-hours spent during the consultancy work. b) Inspection / Site Visit Register: A register to record any site visit by the Consultant(s) be maintained by the Principal Consultant. The suggestions rendered by the Consultant(s) during site visit along with remarks of the clients must be recorded. Further, if any expert advice by external expert is required during the Consultancy project, the same may also be recorded along with the remarks of the Consultant(s). c) Salary/Payment Record: To record all payments made to Consultant(s), supporting staff etc. d) Consumable and Non-Consumable Register: Register for recording hire/purchase of all equipment, materials, all consumables, non-consumables items etc. and its utilization.

[PAGE 14]
e) Travel Record Register: To record details of all expenditure incurred on travel. f) Log books and Warranty/Guarantee Record: Log books be used to record number of hours, laboratory equipment or hired or purchased equipment have been used. Besides, maintain warranty/guarantee certificates and also breakdown details of equipment. g) Correspondence File: For all correspondence since initiation. h) Agreement/Contract File: To maintain complete record of all agreements, contracts, drawings and such document which may constitute legal requirement. i) Work Progress Report: Record of monthly progress report will be maintained by the Consultant(s). Every three months, the consultant(s) is supposed to submit a copy of progress report to the client. j) Any Other Document: Any other document as per the requirement of the client / nature of consultancy project, etc. shall also be maintained by the Consultant(s) 12. Review These rules may be reviewed from time to time as per needs.

[PAGE 15]
Annexure-I Standard Terms and Conditions In addition to the specified General Consultancy rules, the following terms and conditions will apply to consultancy projects taken under all categories by SVSU, unless otherwise mutually agreed to in a separate document. 1. DECLARATION: All consultancy work undertaken by SVSU as part of the project will be in good faith and based on material / data / other relevant information given by the Client requesting for the work. 2. CONFIDENTIALITY: Due care will be taken by SVSU to maintain confidentiality and discretion regarding confidential information received from the Client, including but not limited to results, reports and identity of the client. 3. REPORTS: Any test or other consultancy report given by SVSU will be based on work performed according to available standards and / or open domain literature. In any event, this report may not be construed as a legal document, certificate or endorsement and may not be used for marketing of the products or processes, without prior consent from SVSU. The university reserves the right to retain one copy of the report and use the results of the project for its internal teaching and research purposes. 4. WORK PERFORMANCE: Every effort will be made to complete the specified work according to the planned time schedule. However, SVSU will not be held responsible for delays caused beyond its reasonable control. 5. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: SVSU may take up work for other clients also in the same area, provided, to the best of the university’s knowledge, there is no conflict of interest in undertaking such projects. 6. PAYMENT: The payment of consultancy work to SVSU generally are to be made in advance and in full before the start of the project, through a demand draft / crossed valid cheque, drawn in favour of Registrar, SVSU and sent to the office of Dean/Director - CS. The charges will also include any applicable tax as prescribed by the Government of India from time to time. 7. TERMINATION: The consultancy project work may be terminated by either party by giving the other party a notice period of 30 days. However, both parties will meet any residual obligations in connection with the project. 8. LIABILITY: SVSU shall not be held liable for any loss, damage, delay or failure of performance, resulting directly or indirectly from any cause, which is beyond its reasonable control (Force Majeure). 9. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS: All rights pertaining to any intellectual property generated / created / invented in the due course of the project, will be the

[PAGE 16]
joint property of SVSU and the Consultant(s). Terms and conditions regarding transferring / assigning / selling these rights to the client shall be governed by a separate written and mutually agreed to document, if required. 10. ROYALTY: Out of the sales made for a patent emerging from consultancy work, an annual royalty (to be divided equally between the consultant and the University) of a fixed percentage (to be decided by the Vice Chancellor) will be paid to the University by the client. 11. RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES: Any disputes arising out of the project shall be amicably settled by both the organizations. The legal jurisdiction related to any type of litigation will remain Gurugram or Palwal only. The arbitration power shall lie with Registrar, SVSU in case of any dispute and the decision taken by the Registrar shall be final.

[PAGE 17]
Annexure-II Consultancy Services Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (INDIA) 1. Name of the Department/Office/Branch: 2. Title of the Consultancy Project: 3. Consultancy Project Category: I / II 4. Duration of the Consultancy Project (Year/Month/Days): 5. (i) Date of Commencement (ii) Expected Date of Completion 6. Detailed Project Report (DPR) attached: YES / NO 7. Client’s Name and Address _ 8. Type of Client (Tick): Private Sector/ Govt. Sector/ Public Sector /Foreign Agency / Others (Please Specify) 9. Payment to be received in: FULL / Part ; Indian Currency /Foreign Currency 10. Whether MoU/ Agreement Signed with Client (Attach, if any): Signed / Not Signed 11. Consent Letter from the Client attached: YES / NO 12. Consent Letter from the Consultant(s) attached: YES / NO 13. Whether Eligibility criteria as Consultant(s) fulfilled as per Consultancy Rules of the University: Yes / No If Yes, attach in DPR the detailed proof(s) in support of claiming the eligibility as Consultant(s). 14. Consultant(s) Certificate (Annexure III) attached: YES / NO 15. Details of Persons involved in the Consultancy Project: Name of Consultant(s) along with Designation & Department/Office/Branch Brief role Man Days Signature FORM FOR APPROVAL OF CONSULTANCY PROJECT

[PAGE 18]
Attach with DPR another sheet giving details regarding (i) Task and Responsibilities of the Consultant(s) in detail (ii) Details along with Name, Designation, Task and Responsibilities, etc. of the Ministerial staff and Technical staff to be involved in the consultancy project. (ii) Detailed Schedule (including Travel) of the Consultancy Project justifying the Man days required for completion of the Consultancy Project. 16. Budget (should conform to the amount of contract/ agreement with the Client) Description Budgeted Amount 1.Gross Amount including Service Tax, G 2.Service Tax, L 3. Contracted Amount, T=G-L 4.Total Expenditure, E 5.University Share as per Project Category, U 6. Balance Amount for Distribution, D ATTACH WITH DPR, A SEPARATE SHEET GIVING COMPLETE TENTATIVE DETAILS of the following: (i) Amount to be used for Total Expenditure (E) by the Consultant(s) as per Consultancy Rules. (ii) Amount (D) to be distributed among the Consultant(s) and other bodies as per Consultancy Rules. Signature of the Principal Consultant (with date) Forwarded by Head of Department/Dean/branch/office Dean (RC) office, SVSU Consultancy Project No.: Dated: Recommendations of Consultancy Service Committee: Approved / Not Approved / Suggestions for improvement Convener Member(s)

[PAGE 19]
Annexure – III Consultant(s) Certificate 1. Certified that this consultancy assignment shall not clash with my teaching/office work in the department/office or any other official duty at the University. 2. That the interest of my department/office in the University shall not suffer. (Consultant’s Signature) Address (Office) (Countersigned with official stamp) Head of the Dept./Dean/Branch / Office

[PAGE 20]
SVSU Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (Enacted under Haryana Govt.Act No.25of 2016) Transit Office:Plot No.147,Sector-44,Gurugram (Haryana) PermanentCampus:Dudhola,Palwal (Haryana) www.svsu.ac.in


--- DOCUMENT: Document Prospectus-12.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
PROSPECTUS 2025-26 SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY (State sity n nder the Government of Haryana Act 25, 2016) Univer e acted u First Skill University of India, setup by Govt. of Haryana Campus : Village Dudhola, Distt. Palwal (Haryana) 121102 Transit Oﬃce : Plot No. 147, Sector 44, Gurugram (Haryana) 122003

[PAGE 2]
First Skill University of India, setup by Govt. of Haryana

[PAGE 3]
Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents Contents VICE CHANCELLOR'S MESSAGE .................................................................................... 5 ABOUT SVSU ...................................................................................................................... 6 Vision, Mission, Values ................................................................................................. . 6 Key Features ................................................................................................................. 7 University’s Leadership ................................................................................................. . 8 Dean(s) of University/ Proctor/Associate Deans/Directors ............................................ 8 List of University Academic Staﬀ ................................................................................... 9 Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology ................................................................ 9 Skill Faculty of Management Studies & Research ..................................................... 11 Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities ..................................................... 12 Skill Faculty of Agriculture ......................................................................................... 14 Program Model and Pedagogy ..................................................................................... 15 On-the-Job Training (OJT) ............................................................................................ 15 ACADEMIC STRUCTURE ................................................................................................... 17 Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology ................................................................ 18 Overview ................................................................................................................... 18 Programs Oﬀered ...................................................................................................... 18 About the Programs .................................................................................................... 22 Industry Partners ....................................................................................................... 41 Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research ..................................................... 45 Overview ................................................................................................................... 45 Programs Oﬀered ...................................................................................................... 45 About the Programs ................................................................................................... 47 Industry Partners ....................................................................................................... 54 Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities ......................................................... 58 Overview ............................................................................................................................................. 58 Programs Oﬀered ............................................................................................................................ 58 About the Programs ........................................................................................................................ 61 Industry Partners .............................................................................................................................. 73 Skill Faculty of Agriculture ................................................................................................................. 77 Overview ............................................................................................................................................. 77 Programs Oﬀered ............................................................................................................................ 77 About the Programs ........................................................................................................................ 77 Industry Partners .............................................................................................................................. 82 ADMISSION PROCEDURE ................................................................................................. 83 Overview ....................................................................................................................... 84 Distribution and Reservation of Seats ........................................................................... 85 Supernumerary Seats ................................................................................................... 86 Guidelines for Admission .............................................................................................. 86 Selection Criteria ........................................................................................................... 88

[PAGE 4]
Table of Contents Instructions for Personal Interview/ Aptitude Test/ Professional Test/ Group Discussion................................ ...................................................................................................... 89 Online Application Form Fee ......................................................................................... 90 Program Fee Details ..................................................................................................... 91 Guidelines for Registration and Fees Submission ......................................................... 94 General Instructions for Online Application Form .......................................................... 92 General Instructions for Counselling ............................................................................. 95 Tentative Schedule for Admission ................................................................................. 98 FACILITIES @SVSU ............................................................................................................ 100 About The Hostel .................................................................................................................................. 101 Centre of Excellence ........................................................................................................................... 104 Sports & Infrastructure ........................................................................................................................ Central Library ....................................................................................................................................... 116 Transport Facility .................................................................................................................................. 118 Glimpses of Placement of Students ............................................................................................... 119 Alumni Success Stories...................................................................................................................... 123 University Discipline ............................................................................................................................ 125 Attendance and Leave Rules ........................................................................................................... 128 Department of Student’s Welfare .................................................................................................... Cells, Clubs and Committees ........................................................................................................... 132 Schemes and Scholarships............................................................................................................... 134 Anti-Ragging Guidelines & Preventive Measures ...................................................................... 136 Abbreviations ......................................................................................................................................... 139 Annexures .............................................................................................................................................. 140 Glimpses of University ........................................................................................................................ 167 Our Esteemed Partners ..................................................................................................................... 171 115 129

[PAGE 5]
It is my proud privilege to welcome you to Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Haryana — India's ﬁrst state skill university, established with a visionary purpose to transform the nation's workforce and fulﬁl the Hon'ble Prime Minister's dream of a Developed India. As we stride conﬁdently toward this national goal, skill development and entrepreneurship stand as our strongest pillars, complemented by experience, innovation, and enterprise. Just as Arjuna's unwavering focus on the eye of the ﬁsh led to triumph, our unwavering focus is on nurturing excellent, industry-ready, and future-focused human capital. It is an eternal truth that skill is the foundation upon which all success, prosperity, and progress are built, and SVSU is committed to cultivating this foundation for a vibrant, self-reliant India. In just a short span of eight years, the university has ﬁrmly established itself as a pioneering institution in skill education. Spread over 82.7 acres in Dudhola, our state-of-the-art campus — complete with advanced workshops, modern laboratories, and globally benchmarked infrastructure — serves as a model for other states aspiring to integrate skill development with formal education. Our university's commitment to excellence extends through an industry-integrated, dual-education model where one door of the classroom opens to academic rigor, and the other to hands-on industry exposure. With over 120 active industry partners contributing to curriculum design, internships, and on-the-job training, we ensure our students graduate with both qualiﬁcations and practical expertise. Our collaborations with international universities and our Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) framework further amplify our mission by validating skills and oﬀering new academic opportunities to working professionals. Aligned with the National Education Policy, SVSU is progressing toward a holistic KG to PG education model, oﬀering long and short-term programs tailored to evolving job roles and the National Skills Qualiﬁcation Framework (NSQF). With more than 50 dynamic programs, over 80% placement success, and thriving student entrepreneurs, the university stands as a symbol of productive education that empowers both the individual and the nation. It gives me immense satisfaction to state that Shri Vishwakarma Skill University is not only a proud initiative of the Haryana Government under the guidance of Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's Skill India vision, but it is also a vibrant academic community that fosters innovation, creativity, and social responsibility. I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to all prospective students, industry partners, and aﬃliate institutions. I assure you that SVSU will be a committed partner in your journey, oﬀering unwavering support, collaborative opportunities, and a progressive environment for growth. Come, learn, earn, and make your mark with us. Here, your resolutions will ﬁnd wings in the form of skill and enterprise, propelling you to soar high in the limitless sky of opportunity. I wholeheartedly welcome you to the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University family. Together, let's build a brighter, skilled, and empowered India. Best Wishes, Prof. Dinesh Kumar Vice Chancellor Vice Chancellor's Message Vice Chancellor's Message 5

[PAGE 6]
About SVSU SVSU is India's First Skill University established by the Govt. of Haryana by a legislative Act in 2016. The objective of SVSU is to facilitate & promote skill, entrepreneurship development, skill-based education and to upgrade skill level in various emerging sectors. SVSU's main campus is built on 82.7 acres of land at village Dhudhola, Distt. Palwal with a state-of-the-art infrastructure. SVSU: “योग: कमªस कौशलम ” ु ् The motto has been adopted from Shrimad Bhagwat Gita “योग: कमªस कौशलम ” ु ् (Chapter 2. Verse 50). Any work becomes valuable if done with full concentration, dedication and skill. The colour of the University logo signiﬁes the dignity of skill and labour and Saptarishis in the universe who are collectively bringing the unrevealed wisdom, philosophy, science and knowledge of cosmos to connect with human mind to skill them to think out of box, with inﬁnite limits are personiﬁed as seven dots. The logo symbolizes a blend of tradition and modernity, representing creativity, knowledge, and progress. Elements like the pen nib and spanner highlight hands-on learning and skill-building, while the Wi-Fi symbol and monitor emphasize digital connectivity. The red arrow signiﬁes continuous growth and adaptability. Overall, the logo reﬂects a thoughtful mind integrating knowledge, ethics, and innovation, aligning with the university's mission to nurture skilled and visionary individuals. The campus layout is inspired by a chariot, symbolizing purpose, dynamism, and movement, with academic blocks representing horses and administration/auditorium as the balancing wheels. Vision Mission To emerge as one of the foremost institutions of quality in skill education that bridges the gap between academic learning and practical application and becomes a hub of excellence, where cutting-edge research and industry partnerships converge to cultivate the most sought-after skills of the future. Our Mission is to design, develop and deliver, need based, outstanding skill development training for individuals that fosters their personal and professional growth and empowers them with relevant skills and practical experience required to excel in ever evolving global landscape of jobs. Our commitment lies in unlocking their full potential for sustainable employability and livelihood opportunities through high-quality educators, instructors and a world class training infrastructure aligned with industry requirements and international standards. Values Student-Centric Education: by providing equal opportunities to all who have the potential to succeed. Ensuring innovative academic programming and an exceptional level of engagement between students, industry staﬀ and faculty so that all students acquire skills essential for purposeful and productive living. Knowledge Application: by applying all learning into practice and practicing to perfection with passion, purpose and commitment to the pursuit and development of skills, knowledge and sense of citizenship. About SVSU 6

[PAGE 7]
Integrity and Ethical Behaviour in All Actions: by consistently making a personal choice to be ethical, honest and with moral correctness without being supervised. Leading through Innovation and Inclusivity: by improving the world around us through disruptive thinking and innovative solutions; embracing and acting with responsibility to assure diversity and equity where all individuals are valued and respected. Learning and Growth: by serving as a catalyst for positive change in Haryana and beyond to empower, enable and inspire the youth with 'earn while you learn' model. Industry as Key Partner to Create Impact: by creating sustainable partnership with stakeholders driving the initiative to change the skilling landscape and fostering trust and appreciation in the working model to harness opportunities to full potential. New Age Technology: by adopting and accepting the latest technological advancements which ensure highly evolved students, who are well-equipped with the future-oriented industrial know-how. Giving Back to the Society: by undertaking social and environmental responsibility conscientiously and imbibing sustainable practices to beneﬁt and enhance the well-being of the society. Key Features SVSU Key Strategy Drivers Skill, Re-Skill, Up-Skill, Cross-Skill KEY FEATURES 1 | NEP 2020 Oriented Programs 2 | NIRF Ranking 3 | Industry Aligned Curriculum 4 | Lifelong Learning 5 | NCrF Aligned Programs 1 50% Gross Enrollment RaƟon 3 IntegraƟon of VocaƟonal and General EducaƟon 5 Need based, Demand Driven and Outcome Led Applied Learning 7 Impact MSME’s to improve quality, delivery, producƟvity, growth and cost 8 Industry in Campus 6 Workshop to Workplace 4 KG to PG Model 2 Life Long Learning 9 Create QualiﬁcaƟon Value 10 SVSU as an Inﬂuencer 7

[PAGE 8]
LEADERSHIPS Prof. Dinesh Kumar Vice Chancellor vc@svsu.ac.in Prof. (Dr.) Jyoti Rana Registrar registrar@svsu.ac.in University's Leadership University's Leadership University's Leadership Dean(s) of University/ Proctor/Associate Deans/Directors Dean(s) of University/ Proctor/Associate Deans/Directors S.No Name Designation Email Id 1 Prof. Suresh Kumar Dean Academic Aﬀairs Dean Skill Faculty of Agriculture Director Admissions dean.academics@svsu.ac.in dean.sfa@svsu.ac.in 2 Prof. Randhir Singh Rathore Dean Skill Faculty of Applied Science and Humanities, Director IQAC dean.sfash@svsu.ac.in 3 Prof. Rishipal Controller of Examination, Dean Skill Faculty of Management Studies & Research, Chief Hostel Warden coe@svsu.ac.in dean.sfmsr@svsu.ac.in pcb@svsu.ac.in chw@svsu.ac.in 4 Prof. Ashish Shrivastava Dean Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Dean Corporate Relations and Engagement dean.sfet@svsu.ac.in dean.cre@svsu.ac.in 5 Prof. Usha Batra Director Research & Development, In-charge DIC director.research@svsu.ac.in 6 Prof. Kulwant Singh Dean Student's Welfare, Proctor dean.dsw@svsu.ac.in proctor@svsu.ac.in 7 Dr. Ravinder Associate Dean Aﬃliations, Deputy Director Admissions aﬃliations@svsu.ac.in 8 Dr. Savita Sharma Deputy Controller of Examination dycoe@svsu.ac.in 9 Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh Director Sports, Director Centre of Excellence samd@svsu.ac.in 8 Dean Pedagogy and Capacity Building,

[PAGE 9]
List of University Academic Staﬀ List of University Academic Staﬀ Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology S.No. Name Designation Email Id 1 Prof. Suresh Kumar Skill Professor (Mechanical Engineering), Chairperson, Skill Department of Green Technology suresh.kumar@svsu.ac.in 2 Prof. Ashish Shrivastava Skill Professor (Electrical Engineering), Chairperson, Skill Department of Construction Management & Technology ashish.shrivastava@svsu.ac.in 3 Prof. Usha Batra Skill Professor (IT), Chairperson, Skill Department of CS/IT usha.batra@svsu.ac.in 4 Prof. Kulwant Singh Skill Professor, Chairperson, Industry 4.0 kulwant.singh@svsu.ac.in chairperson.sdi4.0@svsu.ac.in 5 Dr. Ravinder Kumar Skill Associate Professor (IT), Incharge IT-Cell ravinder.kumar@svsu.ac.in 6 Dr. Sanjay Singh Rathore Skill Associate Professor (Mechanical Engineering), Chairperson, Skill Department of Automotive Studies sanjay.singh@svsu.ac.in 7 Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh Skill Associate Professor (Mechanical Engineering) mani.singh@svsu.ac.in 8 Dr. Preeti Skill Assistant Professor (Electrical Engineering) preeti@svsu.ac.in 9 Dr. Sunil Kumar Sharma Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) sunil.sharma@svsu.ac.in 10 Dr. Sajan Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) sajan.kumar@svsu.ac.in 11 Ms. Ekta Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) ekta@svsu.ac.in 12 Dr. Dinesh Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) dinesh@svsu.ac.in 13 Ms. Deepika Skill Assistant Professor (Civil Engineering) deepika.poriye@svsu.ac.in 14 Dr. Mukta Skill Assistant Professor (Computer Science Engineering) mukta.sandhu@svsu.ac.in 15 Dr. Monika Jangra Skill Assistant Professor (Computer Science Engineering) monika.jangra@svsu.ac.in 16 Dr. Nitin Mittal Skill Assistant Professor (Electronics Engineering) nitin.mittal@svsu.ac.in 9

[PAGE 10]
Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology 17 Dr. Meenakshi Agarwal Skill Assistant Professor (Electronics Engineering) meenakshi.agarwal@svsu.ac.in 18 Ms. Deepti Singh Skill Assistant Professor (Electrical Engineering) deepti.singh@svsu.ac.in 19 Dr. Aanchal Skill Assistant Professor (Computer Science Engineering) aanchal.khatri@svsu.ac.in 20 Ms. Ritu Rana Skill Assistant Professor (Computer Science Engineering) ritu.rana@svsu.ac.in 21 Dr. Anil Aggarwal Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) anilaggarwal@svsu.ac.in 22 Mr. Vaibhav Raghav Skill Assistant Professor (Mechanical Engineering) vaibhavraghav@svsu.ac.in 23 Ms. Madhuri Skill Instructor (Computer Science Engineering) madhuri.saini@svsu.ac.in 24 Mr. Sansh Bir Senior Skill Instructor (Electronics Engineering) sanshbir.dagar@svsu.ac.in 25 Mr. Upkar Singh Bhatia Skill Instructor (Civil Engineering) upkar.bhatia@svsu.ac.in 26 Mr. Parveen Skill Instructor (Electrical Engineering) parveen.sharma@svsu.ac.in 27 Mr. Durgesh Gupta Skill Instructor (Automotive) durgesh.gupta@svsu.ac.in 28 Mr. Gurdeep Kumar Skill Instructor (Automotive) gurdeepkumar@svsu.ac.in 29 Mr. Sunil Skill Instructor (Industry 4.0) sunil@svsu.ac.in 30 Dr. Sanjay Kumar Master Skill Instructor (Mechanical Engineering) sanjay.kumar@svsu.ac.in 31 Mr. Puneet Raghav Foreman (Electronics Engineering) puneet.raghav@svsu.ac.in 32 Mr. Jagbir Singh Master Skill Instructor (Mechatronics) jagbirsingh@svsu.ac.in 33 Mr. Brijesh Poswal Foreman (Mechanical Engineering) brijesh.poswal@svsu.ac.in 34 Mr. Ajit Singh Skill Instructor (CSE/IT) ajit.singh@svsu.ac.in 35 Ms. Tina Yadav Skill Instructor (CSE/IT) tina.yadav@svsu.ac.in 36 Mr. Pardeep Kumar Skill Instructor (Electrical Engineering) pardeep.mahor@svsu.ac.in 37 Mr. Mohd. Saalim Skill Instructor (Tool & Die) msaalimmalik@gmail.com 38 Mr. Pankaj Soni Skill Instructor (Electronics Engineering) panrit5232@gmail.com 39 Mr. Ashok Kumar Skill Instructor (Mechanical Engineering) ashok.kumar@svsu.ac.in 40 Mr. Parveen Skill Instructor (Tool & Die) parveen.rathee@svsu.ac.in 41 Mr. Om Parkash Senior Skill Coordinator (CoE) omparkash@svsu.ac.in 10

[PAGE 11]
Skill Faculty of Management Studies & Research S.No. Name Designation Email Id 1 Prof. Jyoti Rana Skill Professor (Management) jyoti.rana@svsu.ac.in 2 Dr. Savita Sharma Skill Associate Professor (Hotel Management), Chairperson Skill Department of Tourism & Hospitality savita.sharma@svsu.ac.in 3 Dr. Pinki Skill Associate Professor (Management) Chairperson, Skill Department of Management Studies pinki@svsu.ac.in 4 Dr. Shruti Gupta Skill Associate Professor (Management) shruti.gupta@svsu.ac.in 5 Dr. Samarth Singh Skill Associate Professor (Management) Chairperson, Skill Department of Banking & Finance samarth.singh@svsu.ac.in 6 Dr. Dalip Raina Skill Assistant Professor (Management) dalip.raina@svsu.ac.in 7 Dr. Vikash Mishra Skill Assistant Professor (Management) vikash.mishra@svsu.ac.in 8 Dr. Himanshu Malik Skill Assistant Professor (Hotel Management) himanshu.malik@svsu.ac.in 9 Dr. Yogesh Verma Skill Assistant Professor (Commerce) yogesh.verma@svsu.ac.in 10 Dr. Parul Bhatia Skill Assistant Professor (Management) parul.bhatia@svsu.ac.in 11 Dr. Sanjula Skill Assistant Professor (Management) sanjulasheokand@svsu.ac.in 12 Dr. Priyanka Skill Assistant Professor (Management) priyanka@svsu.ac.in 13 Dr. Sunil Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (Management) sunilkumar@svsu.ac.in 14 Ms. Sheetal Skill Assistant Professor (Management) sheetal@svsu.ac.in 15 Dr. Bijender Skill Assistant Professor (Management) bijenderchauhan@svsu.ac.in 16 Dr. Ritu Mudgal Skill Assistant Professor (Management) ritumudgal@svsu.ac.in 17 Sh. Satish Kumar Senior Skill Instructor, Hospitality satish.kumar@svsu.ac.in 18 Mr. Sandeep Kumar Skill Instructor (Hospitality & Tourism) sandeep.kumar@svsu.ac.in 11

[PAGE 12]
Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities S.No Name Designation Email Id 1 Prof. Randhir Singh Rathore Skill Professor (Policy Planning) randhir.rathore@svsu.ac.in 2 Prof. Rishipal Skill Professor (Pedagogy), Chairperson, Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences rishipal@svsu.ac.in 3 Dr. Nakul Skill Assistant Professor (English), Incharge, Skill Department of Language and Culture nakul.singh@svsu.ac.in 4 Dr. Mohit Kumar Srivastav Skill Assistant Professor (Mathematics), Incharge, Skill Department of Science and Computation & Skill Department of Lifesciences & Health Care mohit.srivastav@svsu.ac.in 5 Mr. Praveen Sharma Skill Assistant Professor (Mathematics) praveen.sharma@svsu.ac.in 6 Dr. Bhawna Rooprai Skill Assistant Professor (English), Incharge, Skill Department of Sports and Yoga bhawna.rooprai@svsu.ac.in 7 Dr. Shiv Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (Psychology) shiv.kumar@svsu.ac.in 8 Dr. Ajay Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (Mathematics) ajay.kumar@svsu.ac.in 9 Dr. Kalpana Maheshwari Skill Assistant Professor (English) kalpana.maheshwari@svsu.ac.in 10 Dr. Manoj Kumar Sharma Skill Assistant Professor (MLT) manojkumarsharma@svsu.ac.in 11 Ms. Jyoti Nain Skill Assistant Professor (MLT) jyotinain@svsu.ac.in 12 Mr. Ajay Yadav Skill Assistant Professor (Graphics and Design) ajayyadav@svsu.ac.in 13 Mr. Mayank Singh Skill Assistant Professor (Political Sciences) mayanksingh@svsu.ac.in 14 Ms. Priyam Sheoran Skill Assistant Professor (German Language) priyamsheoran@svsu.ac.in 12

[PAGE 13]
Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities 15 Mr. Hement Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (EVS) hementkumar@svsu.ac.in 16 Mr. Rahul Malik Master Skill Instructor (Communication Skills) rahul.malik@svsu.ac.in 17 Dr. Santosh Kumar Senior Skill Instructor (MLT) santosh.kumar@svsu.ac.in 18 Ms. Meenakshi Koul Senior Skill Instructor (Communication Skills) meenakshikoul@svsu.ac.in 19 Dr. Sohan Lal Skill Instructor (Yoga) sohan.lal@svsu.ac.in 20 Dr. Raj Kumar Skill Instructor (Music) rajtewatia@svsu.ac.in 21 Mr. Prabhishek Shroti Skill Instructor (Physics) prabhishek.shroti@@svsu.ac.in 22 Dr. Himani Varshney Lab Technician (Chemistry) himanivarshney@svsu.ac.in 23 Ms. Jaya Kaushik Lab Technician (Psychology) jaya.kaushik@svsu.ac.in 24 Mr. Bharat Sharma Skill Instructor (EVS) bharatsharma@svsu.ac.in 25 Ms. Konsam Mercyda Consultant (Japanese Language) konsammercyda@svsu.ac.in 13

[PAGE 14]
Skill Faculty of Agriculture 14 S.No. Name Designation Email Id 1 Prof. Suresh Kumar Dean Skill Faculty of Agriculture suresh.kumar@svsu.ac.in 2 Dr. Harish Kumar Skill Assistant Professor (Food Technology) Incharge Skill Department of Agriculture, Skill Department of Horticulture harish.kumar@svsu.ac.in 3 Dr. Tejinder Singh Skill Assistant Professor tejindersingh@svsu.ac.in 4 Mr. Hemant Hari Tripathi Skill Instructor (Agriculture) hemant.tripathi@svsu.ac.in

[PAGE 15]
Program Model and Pedagogy Program Model and Pedagogy Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has built a strong partnership with the industry to facilitate student's employability and entrepreneurship through On-the-Job Training (OJT). The University has designed, developed and deployed Industry Integrated Dual Education Model (IIDEM) that facilitates “Earn-While-Learn” opportunities and provides the students with the opportunity to enhance their qualiﬁcation with ﬂexibility of entry and exit into a programs. SVSU has conceptualized IIDEM program with various Industry Partners, which is designed in such a manner where some of the credits are earned through Skill courses, integrated with National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS), oﬀering stipend. The classroom training shall be imparted by the SVSU faculty and other industry experts. Practical & workshop experience are the key components of the overall training. The entire pedagogy is designed to develop application-based experiential learning that will make students job-ready from day one. Every Skill Faculty also oﬀers PhD Program. The seats and the admission process of the PhD program will be announced separately. On-the-Job Training (OJT) On-the-Job Training (OJT) As a part of program's training delivery, all students have to undergo OJT scheduled at the industry partner's shop ﬂoor/ workplace to work on the actual machines/ business processes. OJT working hours are linked to the required credits for the program. The daily duration of OJT shall be a maximum of nine (09) hours. The OJT shall be carried out under the supervision of supervisor-cum-trainer nominated by industry partner. The OJT areas are subjct to availability; students cannot claim for speciﬁc OJT areas. It is mandatory that students comply with industry OJT requirements including rules and discipline prescribed by the OJT partner. The stipend during the OJT will be the discretion of industry partner and it may be oﬀered with or without stipend. OJT location may vary as per industry partner requirements anywhere in India and students are required to follow the necessary guidelines. After deployment of the students in the industry, students are registered on Digital OJT Diary Platform and login credentials are created and shared among the students. On daily basis students have to ﬁll the learning outcomes of the day regularly and OJT mentor as well as Industry Mentor assesses the performance of the students on regular basis. The students going on OJT are also assessed on the basis of reports of Digital OJT Diary Portal encompassing both internal and external marks. 15

[PAGE 16]
The students during their OJT shall: ● Work in the available OJT areas as assigned by SVSU/ industry mentors. Observe the industry's occupational health and safety rules and processes. Follow the rules and instructions of SVSU and OJT partner. ● Abide by the rules and standard operating procedures of the industry as applicable to Work on the shop ﬂoor/ work place. ● Be in the uniform of University/OJT partner as applicable. ● Attend the OJT on a regular basis. Students must have a minimum of 90% attendance during OJT in order to be eligible for the end semester examination. Every student is required to ﬁll the following on daily basis on the online OJT diary - 1. One Observation of the day 2. Job Assigned 3. Machines/SOPs used 4. Skill learnt 5. Challenges faced 6. Ideation, if any Further details of the OJT diary are Program based 16

[PAGE 17]
ACADEMIC STRUCTURE Academic Structure This university has four Skill Faculties, namely 17

[PAGE 18]
Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology The Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology (SFET) oﬀers Certiﬁcate/Diploma/Degree/PG/ PhD programs in collaboration with the industries through following departments: 1. Skill Department of Automotive Studies 2. Skill Department of Construction Management and Technology 3. Skill Department of Green Technology 4. Skill Department of CS/IT 5. Skill Department of Industry 4.0 6. Skill Department of Plastic Technology Programs Oﬀered Sr. No. Program NCrF Level Duration (Yr(s)) Intake Capacity Eligibility Criteria Industry Partner* 1 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Draughtsmanship (Civil) 4 2 30 10th (Science or Mathematics or Equivalent) NCCBM, BMTPC 2 Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design 5 2 30 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10th+ITI (2 years) with 1 language subject in Hindi or English Inspire Design Academy 3 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing 4 2 30 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent SKH Metals, Senior India, Roop Auto 4 Diploma in Industrial Electronics 4.5 3 30+30 10th (Science and Mathematics) East West Automation Technology Private Limited, Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd. 5 Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (AICTE Approved) 4.5 3 60 As per AICTE/HSTES Norms JBM Group 18

[PAGE 19]
Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology 6 Diploma Computer Science and Engineering (AICTE Approved) 4.5 3 60 As per AICTE/HSTES norms DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation 7 # Diploma (Computer) Generative AI/ Cyber Security 4.5 3 30 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation 8 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechatronics 5.5 3 30 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcation in Automotive/ Capital Goods & Manufacturing/ Electronics & HW sector or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) HERO Motocorp 9 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing 5.5 3 30+30 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcation in Automotive/ Capital Goods and Manufacturing or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) Anand Group, HERO MotoCorp 10 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Solar Technology 5.5 3 30 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10th + ITI (2 years) with 1 language subject in Hindi or English Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. 19

[PAGE 20]
Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology 20 11 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc./Hons. With Research.) Robotics and Automation 5.5/6 3/4 30 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10th+ITI (2 years) with 1 language subject in Hindi or English JBM Group & Orangewood labs Pvt. Ltd. 12 Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA) 3/4 Years 120 10+2 or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). Globus Eight Inc, Vastav Intellect, Darkblue DevOps 13 BCA - MCA (Integrated) 3/5 Years 60 10+2 or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). Globus Eight Inc, Vastav Intellect, Darkblue DevOps 14 B.Tech. Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing (AICTE Approved) 6 4 30 As per AICTE/HSTES Norms Schneider Electric, Zetrance Technology Pvt. Ltd., JBM Group, HL Mando Softtech India Pvt. Ltd. 15 B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) with Minor/Hons. in Electric Vehicles/ Cyber Security/ Robotics (AICTE Approved) 6 4 30 As per AICTE/HSTES Norms JBM Group, HL Mando Softtech India Pvt. Ltd., Auto Ignition Ltd., Zetrance Technology Pvt. Ltd., Airport Authority of India, e-Ashwa Automotive 5.5/6 5.5/6.5

[PAGE 21]
Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology * Industry partners are tentative and may be changed as per availability/consent of Industry Partner. #These programs may be oﬀered/shifted from Gurugram campus to Main Campus subject to decision of Statutory Bodies of University. 21 16 B.Tech. in Computer Engineering 6 4 60 As per AICTE/HSTES Norms DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation 17 B. Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning) 6 4 60 As per AICTE/HSTES Norms DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation 18 Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robotics and Automation 7 2 18 B.Tech./B.E. in ECE/CSE/IT/Mechanical /M.Sc. (Electronics/IT)/MCA or other related disciplines from any recognized University/ Institution with a minimum of 55% marks or equivalent grade (45% marks or equivalent grade for Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes). GATE qualiﬁed/Industry experience candidates will be given preference. JBM and Orange wood lab 19 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging (PGDSDP) 6.5 1 20 - •B.E /B.Tech. in Electronics/Electronics & Communication / Electrical/ Electrical and Electronics/Instrumentati on/ Biomedical /Computer Science/Information Technology/ or M.Sc. in Electronics/Physics (with relevant specialization) with Minimum 50% aggregate •Final year students of B.E./B.Tech. programs in the above-mentioned streams, are also eligible to apply. experience. •Basic knowledge of semiconductor devices and circuits preferred

[PAGE 22]
About the Programs About the Programs About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Automotive Studies 22

[PAGE 23]
Eligibility: th 10 (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NCrF Level: 4 Industry Partners: SKH Metals and Senior India Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) As per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the program: D.Voc. (Mechanical-Manufacturing) program is aligned to the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and NCrF Level 4.0 based on Dual Education Model, is in association with SKH Metals Ltd. & Sr. India Pvt Ltd. The program oﬀers multiple entry and exit options. As per the approval of the statutory body and Board of the Studies; the students may obtain a Certiﬁcate of Vocation (C.Voc.) or Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing based on the level of completion, allowing ﬂexibility in academic and career pathways. The students will be in the classroom for the ﬁrst year and in the industry for On the Job Training in the second year. The focus of this program is on preparing students to become familiar with the environment of the shop ﬂoor in industries and to eﬀectively use tools and equipment for achieving quality in manufacturing processes. The program will provide in-depth knowledge in the ﬁeld of Assembly line, CNC machines programming, CMM machines, Measurement and metrology, and Quality inspection/control, and impart learning in frontier areas of Automotive Component Manufacturing, including machines, processes, products, programming, testing & quality control. Job Roles aligned with the Program: Automotive Conventional Machining Technician and Automotive Welding Machine Operator (Manual and Robotics) Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing About the Programs Eligibility: th 10 (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NCrF Level: 4 Industry Partners: Roop Auto Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) As per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the program: D.Voc. (Mechanical-Manufacturing) program is aligned to the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and NCrF Level 4.0 based on Dual Education Model, is in association with SKH Metals Ltd., Sr. India Pvt Ltd and Roop Auto. The program oﬀers multiple entry and exit options. As per the approval of the statutory body and Board of the Studies; the students may obtain a Certiﬁcate of Vocation (C.Voc.) or Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing based on the level of completion, allowing ﬂexibility in academic and career pathways. The students will be in the classroom for the ﬁrst year and in the industry for On the Job Training in the second year. The focus of this programme is on preparing students to become familiar with the environment of the shop ﬂoor in industries and to eﬀectively use tools and equipment for achieving quality in manufacturing processes. The programme will provide in depth knowledge in the ﬁeld of Assembly line, CNC machines programming, CMM machines, Measurement and metrology, and Quality inspection/control, and impart learning in frontier areas of Automotive Component Manufacturing, including machines, processes, products, programming, testing and quality control. Job Roles aligned with the Program: Automotive Conventional Machining Technician and Automotive Welding Machine Operator (Manual and Robotics) 23

[PAGE 24]
Eligibility: As per AICTE / HSTES Norms NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partner: JBM Group Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) As per NEP 2020 Seats: 60 About the Program: The Diploma in Mechanical Engineering is a six-semester program designed to provide students with a solid foundation in mechanical engineering principles and practices. The course structure is thoughtfully developed to blend academic knowledge with practical experience. The program is aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, oﬀering multiple entry and exit options. As per the approval of the statutory body and Board of the Studies; the students may obtain a Certiﬁcate of Vocation (C.Voc.) or Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) or Diploma in Mechanical Engineering based on the level of completion, allowing ﬂexibility in academic and career pathways. The ﬁrst ﬁve semesters focus on classroom-based learning. This phase emphasizes conceptual understanding and technical skill development. The sixth semester is dedicated to industrial training, conducted in collaboration with JBM Group, a leading industry specializing in Tool and Die Manufacturing. This training provides students with valuable hands-on experience, exposing them to real-world industrial processes, tools, and technologies, thereby enhancing their employability and readiness for the engineering profession. Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (AICTE Approved) About the Programs Eligibility: 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcation in Automotive/ Capital Goods & Manufacturing/ Electronics & HW sector or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English). NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partner: Hero Motocorp Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Year as per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the Program: The world is swiftly moving towards full automation across services, utilities, and production systems through intelligent, self-regulating technologies. This shift is powered by a synergistic blend of Mechanical, Electronics, Electrical, Computer, and Control Engineering. The B.Voc. Mechatronics program at SVSU is aligned with the National Skill Qualiﬁcations Framework (NSQF) framework and follows a dual education model combining academic knowledge with skill-based learning. A distinctive feature of the program is On-the-Job Training (OJT) in collaboration with HERO MotoCorp, oﬀering students valuable industrial exposure. The curriculum integrates core engineering disciplines, preparing students to contribute eﬀectively to product innovation and smart manufacturing. It emphasizes real-world applications, process optimization, and productivity enhancement for future-ready professionals. Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechatronics 24

[PAGE 25]
About the Programs Eligibility: 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcation in Automotive/ Capital Goods and Manufacturing or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English). NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partner: Anand Group Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Year as per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the Program: The world is entering the fourth industrial revolution also known as Industry 4.0. Automotive sector is changing its demands in modern era wherein Anand Group is leading the few products such as shock absorbers, customized automotive and industrial ﬁlters, etc. Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) in collaboration with Anand Group, a well-known brand of the automotive world has designed a Bachelor of Vocation (Mechanical Manufacturing) program which is aligned with the National Skill Qualiﬁcations Framework (NSQF) based on Dual Education Model and in light of NEP 2020. The program will enable students to understand the complexities of the manufacturing processes handled at the shop ﬂoors of the industry. The focus of the program is on preparing students to become familiar with the manufacturing ecosystem while working with the industry and to eﬀectively use tools and equipment for achieving stringent quality standards in the manufacturing sector in an optimized manner. Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Eligibility: 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 certiﬁcation in Automotive/ Capital Goods and Manufacturing sector or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 years) with one language subject (Hindi or English). NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partners: Hero MotoCorp Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) As per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the Program: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Palwal, oﬀers a unique 3-year B. Voc in Mechanical Manufacturing program under the Skill Department of Automotive Studies with an innovative 2+1 model in collaboration with Hero MotoCorp, one of India's leading automotive manufacturers. This program is designed in light of NEP 2020 to blend academic knowledge with hands-on industry experience, where students spend the ﬁrst two years at the university focusing on theoretical and practical training, followed by a full year of on-the-job training at Hero MotoCorp. This integrated approach ensures that graduates are industry-ready with relevant skills, real-world exposure, and enhanced employability in the mechanical and manufacturing sectors. Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) in Mechanical Manufacturing 25

[PAGE 26]
About the Programs Eligibility: As per AICTE/HSTES Norms NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: Schneider Electric, JBM Group, HL Mando Softtech India Pvt. Ltd., Zetrance Technology Pvt. Ltd. Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: In line with the existing and emerging needs of the Manufacturing Industry (Manufacturing vision 2030), research and academics, Skill department of Automotive Studies under Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology has designed, conceptualized and is introducing an innovative four-year B. Tech program in Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing which oﬀers ﬂexibility to the students in accordance with the NEP 2020 and new guidelines issued by the AICTE APH 2022-23. The program oﬀers specialization related courses to build domain knowledge for smart manufacturing industries and provides the relevant skills in multidisciplinary areas of study. Immense signiﬁcance is placed on industry internships with an attempt to provide hands-on experience in many spheres of technology related to smart manufacturing. This program will provide students an opportunity to learn both fundamental concepts of Mechanical Engineering and Manufacturing Science, latest tools and technologies in the ﬁeld of Industry 4.0 technologies: Automation / Robotics, Internet of Things, Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Additive Manufacturing etc. Choice based credits system (CBCS), Project based learning in each year of the program, emphasis on skill-based learning, work exposure in industry, development of critical thinking and problem-solving aptitude for new product development are few salient features of the program. B.Tech Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing (AICTE Approved) 26

[PAGE 27]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Construction Management & Technology 27

[PAGE 28]
Eligibility: th 10 (Science or Mathematics or Equivelent) NCrF Level: 4 Industry Partner: NCCBM, BMTPC Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: The program in draughtsman ship focuses on developing the skills and knowledge, necessary to create accurate and detailed technical drawings. It typically covers various aspects of drawing, including architectural, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineering drawings. The program includes both theoretical and practical components to provide a comprehensive understanding of draughtsman ship. The main thrust is on the skilling in: (i) Surveying (ii) Manual and AUTOCAD Drawings (iii) Estimating and Costing Eligibility: th 10+2 (PCM or 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relavant ﬁeld or 10 +ITI(2 years) with 1 language subject in Hindi or English ) NCrF Level: 5 Industry Partner: Inspire Design Academy Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the program: Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design is a two-years undergraduate program that provides students with the skills and knowledge needed to pursue a career in interior design. The program focuses on both the theoretical and practical aspects of interior design, and student will gain experience in areas such as space planning, furniture selection, colony theory and lighting design. Some key elements that might be in a program in U.G./Diploma/B.Voc in Interior design:- 1. Technical Drawing Skills 2. Computer Aided design (CAD) Software 3. Architectural Drawings 4. Electrical and Electronics Drawings 5. Civil Engineering drawings 6. Rendering and visualisation Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Draughtsmanship (Civil) Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design About the Programs 28

[PAGE 29]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Green Technology 29

[PAGE 30]
Eligibility: th 10+2 (PCM or 10+2 with Maths and L4 certiﬁcate in relavant ﬁeld or 10 +ITI(2 years) with 1 language subject in Hindi or English ) NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partner: Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: The B.Voc. in Solar Technology is a 3-year undergraduate vocational program consisting ﬁrst two years of classroom teaching and one year of On Job Training, designed to equip students with industry-ready skills in the fast-growing renewable energy sector. This program maximizes the National Skills Qualiﬁcation Framework (NSQF) alignment and based on a dual education model, this program blends theoretical knowledge with hands-on training, preparing students for real-world challenges in solar energy. Salient Features of the Program Industry-Aligned Curriculum: Gain expertise in Solar Photovoltaic (PV) and Solar Thermal systems, covering design, installation, and maintenance. Dual Education Model: Learn through a mix of classroom instruction and practical training for a well- rounded skill set. Entrepreneurial Focus: Develop business and innovation skills to launch your solar energy ventures. Hands-On Experience: Work on real industry projects, internships, and on-the-job training to bridge the gap between education and employment. Future-Ready Skills: Address the growing demand for skilled solar technicians and engineers in India's renewable energy sector. Career Opportunities: Graduates can pursue roles such as: 1. PV System Designer 2. Solar Energy Consultant 3. Renewable Energy Project Manager 4. Solar Entrepreneur Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc) Solar Technology About the Programs 30

[PAGE 31]
About the Programs Eligibility: As per AICTE/HSTES Norms NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partners: JBM Group, HL Mando Softtech India Pvt. Ltd., Auto Ignition Ltd., Zetrance Technology Pvt. Ltd., Airport Authority of India, e-Ashwa Automotive Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: The global technological transformation in power sector and the automotive industry's shift toward sustainable, low-emission solutions, coupled with India's National Electric Mobility Mission Plan (NEMMP) 2020 targeting 30% electric mobility by 2030, have created a pressing need for a skilled workforce in electric vehicles (EV), cyber security, and robotics. These ﬁelds are pivotal for fostering sustainable growth and addressing emerging challenges in the digital and automated mobility ecosystem. Additionally, the rising demand for secure, interconnected electrical systems and advanced automation in industries underscores the importance of expertise in cyber security and robotics. To meet these industry-driven demands, the Skill Department of Green Technology under the Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has designed a 4-year Bachelor of Technology (Electrical Engineering) program with a Minor/Hons. in Electric Vehicles/Cyber Security/Robotics is developed in collaboration with leading industry partners and aims to educate, engage, and elevate skills in the EV ecosystem, secure digital infrastructure, and intelligent automation. It integrates core electrical engineering principles, including power distribution systems for eﬃcient energy management, advanced control techniques for system stability, and circuit design for reliable performance, to support cutting-edge applications in the chosen specializations. The program oﬀers specialized courses to build domain expertise in the chosen minor degree/Hons. For Electric Vehicles, it covers battery-driven vehicle dynamics, motor drives, power electronic converters, batteries, battery management system and charging infrastructure, leveraging electrical engineering concepts like power electronics and eﬃcient energy systems. The Cyber Security minor focuses on secured interconnected systems, threat mitigation, and data protection. The Robotics minor emphasizes automation, control systems, and intelligent machine design. Signiﬁcant emphasis is placed on industry internships and industry-based projects to provide hands-on experience in these cutting-edge technological domains. The Skill Department of Green Technology is committed to achieve academic excellence by oﬀering skill- oriented, industry-aligned programs in the emerging ﬁelds. Through interdisciplinary engineering studies, the department strives to address social, environmental, and technological challenges, fostering sustainability and innovation for national and global needs. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) with Minor/Hons. in Electric Vehicles/ Cyber Security/ Robotics (AICTE Approved) 31

[PAGE 32]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of CS/IT 32

[PAGE 33]
Eligibility: As per AICTE/HSTES norms NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partners: DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation Duration: 3 Years (6 Semester) Seats: 60 About the Program: The Diploma in Computer Engineering is a 3-year program comprising of 6 semesters. Each semester aims to develop competencies among students for their personal and professional growth. Computer Industry is the one of India's fastest growing industries and will grow in future as well. As a part of industry-oriented curriculum they will be provided knowledge and skills with various subjects such as Operating Systems, Web-development, Networking, Databases, etc. with industry-oriented curriculum. This diploma provides core skills of engineering in computer/ IT industry along with entrepreneurship skills to the youths. The empowered youths will be employable as a Junior Engineer, System Analyst, Software Developer, Associate Developer or Junior program. Eligibility: th 10 (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partners: DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation Duration: 3 Years (6 Semester) Seats: 60 About the Program: The Diploma in Computer (Generative AI and Cyber Security) spans three years, divided into six semesters. Each semester delves into providing students with a solid foundation in both Generative Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) techniques and Cybersecurity principles. Generative AI: The Generative AI segment of the diploma explores fundamental concepts, including machine learning algorithms utilized for generating diverse data sets, images, textual content, and musical compositions. Cyber Security: The Cyber Security component is dedicated to comprehending the principles and methodologies of safeguarding computer systems and networks against cyber threats. Key areas of study encompass Introduction to Cybersecurity, Cryptography, Network Security, Secure Coding Practices, Incident Response, and Forensic Analysis. Program Outcomes: Upon completion of diploma, students will possess the technical acumen in Generative AI alongside the practical expertise necessary for fortifying computer systems and networks. This comprehensive skill set positions graduates for roles in cybersecurity, specializing in AI-driven solutions. Diploma Computer Science and Engineering (AICTE Approved) Diploma Computer Generative AI / Cyber Security* About the Programs 33

[PAGE 34]
Eligibility: 10+2 or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partners: Globus Eight Inc, Vastav Intellect, Darkblue DevOps Duration: 3/4 Years (6/8 Semesters) Seats: 120 About the Program: The Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) program is a dynamic and industry- aligned undergraduate degree designed to prepare students for the ever-evolving world of Information Technology. The program equips learners with a strong foundation in computer science, programming, data management, and emerging digital technologies. The curriculum is a perfect blend of theory and hands-on skill training, incorporating real-world projects, internships, and interaction with industry experts to ensure work-readiness from day one. Special emphasis is laid on problem-solving, critical thinking, and entrepreneurial skills, enabling students to adapt and innovate in diverse tech domains. Whether you aspire to become a software developer, system analyst, UI/UX designer, IT entrepreneur, or pursue higher education and research, the BCA program at SVSU is your gateway to a future-proof tech career.Engineer, System Analyst, Software Developer, Associate Developer or Junior program. Eligibility: 10+2 or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). NCrF Level: 5.5/6.5 Industry Partners: Globus Eight Inc, Vastav Intellect, Darkblue DevOps Duration: 3/5 Years (6/10 Semesters) Seats: 60 About the Program: The Integrated BCA-MCA program at SVSU is a comprehensive and future-focused ﬁve-year course designed to seamlessly blend undergraduate and postgraduate education in Computer Applications. This industry-aligned program prepares students for the rapidly changing landscape of Information Technology by building a deep and progressive understanding of computer science, software development, data management, and cutting-edge digital technologies. Structured to provide a strong academic foundation along with advanced professional competencies, the curriculum combines rigorous theoretical learning with hands-on training, real-world projects, internships, and regular engagement with industry professionals. Students develop core technical skills alongside critical thinking, problem-solving, leadership, and entrepreneurial capabilities essential for success in diverse IT roles. With its integrated structure, the program enables students to transition smoothly from foundational concepts in the early years to specialized and advanced areas in later stages—without the need for reapplication between degrees. Whether aiming for careers as software engineers, system architects, data analysts, UI/UX designers, IT consultants, or pursuing research and innovation, this program oﬀers a robust pathway to a future-ready tech career. Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA) BCA – MCA About the Programs 34

[PAGE 35]
Eligibility: As per AICTE/HSTES Norms NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partners: DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 60 About the Program: The Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) in Computer Engineering is a comprehensive four-year undergraduate program meticulously structured to provide students with a robust academic and technical foundation in the ﬁeld of computer science and engineering. The program is thoughtfully designed to integrate mathematical theories and computational principles, enabling students to eﬀectively address and resolve complex, real-world engineering problems. The curriculum oﬀers in-depth exposure to system architecture and software development methodologies, with a deliberate emphasis on secure computing practices. Through a carefully curated blend of theoretical instruction and hands-on practical training, the program cultivates advanced competencies in modern programming languages, algorithmic thinking, software engineering processes, and cybersecurity frameworks. Students are further equipped with the skills necessary to design, develop, and manage scalable, reliable, and secure software systems and applications. In addition to technical proﬁciency, the program nurtures critical thinking, innovation, and problem-solving abilities—key attributes required to thrive in the fast- paced and ever-evolving technological ecosystem. Graduates of this program emerge as well-rounded professionals, capable of contributing meaningfully to diverse domains within the information technology and engineering sectors, including software development, network security, data science, artiﬁcial intelligence, and more. Minor Degree Options (Optional Specializations) To broaden academic horizons and signiﬁcantly enhance career prospects, students enrolled in the B.Tech. Computer Engineering program are oﬀered the opportunity to pursue Minor Degrees in cutting- edge and high-demand domains. These optional specializations are strategically designed to align with current industry trends and technological advancements, thereby equipping students with niche skills and interdisciplinary expertise. Available minor specializations include Data Science, Cyber Security, and Blockchain—ﬁelds that are increasingly vital in today's digital economy. Through these focused programs, students delve deeper into specialized topics such as statistical modeling, data visualization, machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and big data technologies. malware analysis and reverse engineering, ethical hacking, penetration testing, cyber forensics, cryptography, decentralized ledger technologies, and smart contracts. By complementing their core engineering curriculum with these targeted areas of study, students gain a competitive advantage in the job market. This multidisciplinary learning approach not only fosters innovation and adaptability but also prepares graduates to meet the complex challenges of the rapidly evolving technology landscape with conﬁdence and competence. Program Highlights: The B.Tech. Computer Engineering program adopts a forward-thinking academic framework that integrates Project-Based Learning (PBL) to promote hands-on problem-solving and practical application of knowledge. The curriculum is further enriched through active industry collaboration via internships, ensuring students gain valuable real-world experience and professional exposure. Designed in alignment with current industry standards and emerging technologies, the program prepares students holistically for successful careers in areas such as software engineering, cybersecurity, data science, and other innovation-driven ﬁelds. Additional fees are applicable for Minor Degree specializations. The program is also supported by active partnerships with reputed industry players including Darkblue Devop, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation, fostering strong academia-industry linkages that further enhance career readiness. B.Tech. in Computer Engineering About the Programs 35

[PAGE 36]
About the Programs Eligibility: As per AICTE/HSTES Norms NCrF Level : 6 Industry Partners: DarkBlue DevOps, Vastav Intellect, Globus Eight, and YBI Foundation Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 60 About the Program: The B. Tech. Computer Science & Engineering (AI & ML) is a 4-year undergraduate program comprising 8 semesters. This program is designed to empower the students professionally as well as technically exceptional in developing advanced machine learning systems by deploying artiﬁcial intelligence algorithms. This program develops the skills of constructing the eﬃcient applications or solutions integrated with analytical information ensuring speciﬁc output. This program imparts a comprehensive knowledge of various programming languages required for development of AI and ML applications and systems. Elective courses on state-of-the -art technology like Blockchain, Internet of Things(IoT), and cloud may also be oﬀered to the students of this program. This program includes several unique features such as project-based learning, choice-based credit system and Industry support for Internship/On Job Training that will prepare the learner holistically for the professional environment. B. Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning) 36

[PAGE 37]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Industry 4.0 37

[PAGE 38]
Eligibility: th 10 (Science and Mathematics) NCrF level: 4.5 Industry Partners :East West Automation Technology Private Limited, Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd. Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Seats: 30+30 About the Program: The Diploma in Industrial Electronics is structured around the Dual Education Model and aligned with the NCrF Level 4.5. This program is oﬀered by SVSU in collaboration with industry partners, East West Automation Technology Pvt. Ltd., Gurugram and Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd., Noida. The curriculum is designed to provide in-depth knowledge and practical training in key areas such as cable and wire manufacturing, electronic component assembly, Analog and Digital circuits, Electronic devices, and Embedded System programming. Emphasis is placed on the application, signiﬁcance, and quality control of these processes within the electronics industry. Students will also develop competencies in product assembly, global sourcing, manufacturing, quality assurance, management, and presentation skills to support informed decision-making within organizations. The program aims to equip students with a thorough understanding of electronic manufacturing environments, preparing them to meet industry standards in the production and assembly of wires, cables, connectors, and related components. Students will be prepared for in-demand roles involving the repair, installation, and maintenance of electronic devices, machinery, and industrial equipment. Students will also be qualiﬁed to test and inspect electronic systems, components, and equipment to ensure compliance with quality and safety standards. Job Role: · Wiring Harness Assembly Operator · PCB Assembly Operator · Incoming QC Technician Exit options (as per NEP): · Certiﬁcate: 2 Months OJT after completion of 1 Year · D.Voc IE (NCrF level: 4): After completion of 2nd Year Eligibility: 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Mathematics and L4 Certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) NCrF Level : 5.5/6 Industry Partner: JBM Group & Orangewood labs Pvt. Ltd. Duration: 3/4 Years (6 Semesters) Year as per NEP 2020 Seats: 30 About the Program: The world is rapidly advancing toward complete automation through cutting-edge intelligent devices and robotic systems, inﬂuencing a wide range of human and industrial activities. The B.Voc. (Robotics & Automation) program is aligned with the National Skills Qualiﬁcations Framework (NSQF) and follows the Dual Education Model adopted by Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) in collaboration with industry partners. This interdisciplinary program integrates knowledge from Electrical, Electronics, Computer Science, Mechanical, and other engineering domains. A unique feature of the program is its emphasis on hands-on experience, with over 60% of the curriculum dedicated to On-the-Job Diploma in Industrial Electronics Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc./Hons. With Research) Robotics and Automation About the Programs 38

[PAGE 39]
Training (OJT). Students gain practical knowledge in technical areas such as mechanical systems, electrical and electronics engineering, computer applications, instrumentation, and control systems, along with foundational concepts in Applied Science, Applied Engineering, and Applied Mathematics. The program spans three years and is divided into six semesters, with provisions for ﬂexible entry and exit points at various stages. It follows an "Earn-While-Learn" model and is structured under a 4-year (3+1) scheme in accordance with the NEP 2020 guidelines. This structure supports a multi-entry, multi-exit system to provide greater ﬂexibility and mobility for learners. Upon successful completion of three years, students are awarded a B.Voc. degree in Robotics and Automation. Those who choose to pursue the fourth year will be eligible for a B.Voc. (Honours) in Robotics and Automation. About the Programs 39 Eligibility: ·B.E /B.Tech. in Electronics/Electronics & Communication / Electrical/ Electrical and Electronics/Instrumentation/ Biomedical /Computer Science/Information Technology/ or M.Sc. in Electronics/Physics (with relevant specialization) with Minimum 50% aggregate ·Final year students of B.E./B.Tech. programs in the above-mentioned streams, are also eligible to apply. ·Basic knowledge of semiconductor devices and circuits preferred NCrF Level : 6.5 Duration: 1Year, Mode: Full-Time + On-Job Training (OJT) Seats: 20 About the Program: With India's semiconductor packaging ecosystem rapidly growing under the India Semiconductor Mission (ISM), there is an urgent demand for industry-ready professionals, especially in Assembly, Testing, Marking, and Packaging (ATMP) roles. Objective and Features of Program SVSU's applied skill-based education model ensures graduates are job-ready from Day 1, combining classroom theory with On Job Training in core Industry. Strategic Location: Proximity to industrial hubs in Palwal, Bhiwadi, Manesar, Gurugram, and Noida. OJT-Focused Curriculum: The 40 to 50% of the program is conducted on-site in industry. Industry-Vetted Capstone Projects: Co-supervised by senior packaging engineers. Guest Sessions: Lectures and technical talks by industry experts. PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging (PGDSDP)

[PAGE 40]
About the Programs 40 Eligibility: B.Tech / B.E. in ECE/CSE/IT/Mechanical/ M.Sc. (Electronics / IT) / MCA or Other related disciplines from any recognized university/institutions with a minimum of 55% marks or Equivalent grade(45% marks or Equivalent grade for Scheduled Caste/ Schedule Tribes). GATE qualiﬁed / Industry Experience candidates will be given preference. NCrF Level : 7 Industry Partner: JBM Group and Orangewood Labs. Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 18 About the Program: Robotics and Automation play a pivotal role in simplifying, accelerating, and enhancing various aspects of our daily lives through continuous technological advancements. In response to the growing global demand for skilled professionals in robotic process automation, the Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology oﬀers the M.Tech in Robotics and Automation programme. This postgraduate program is designed to develop a technically proﬁcient and innovation-driven workforce aligned with the current and future needs of industry, research, and academia. The curriculum is thoughtfully structured to oﬀer specialized courses that build deep domain expertise and equip students with multidisciplinary skills spanning robotics, automation, electronics, computer science, mechanical systems, and control engineering. A strong emphasis is placed on industry-oriented learning, with signiﬁcant focus on real-world applications through industry-based projects, internships, and research during the ﬁnal year. This approach ensures that graduates are not only academically sound but also industry-ready. The M.Tech in Robotics and Automation is a forward-thinking program that prepares students to become leaders and innovators in the ﬁeld of automation and intelligent systems. Job Prospects: Robotics Engineer, Automation Engineer, Control Systems Engineer, Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Developer, Industrial Automation Specialist, Research Scientist, Design Engineer, Product Development Engineer, IoT Engineer (Industrial Robotics), Project Manager etc. Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robotics and Automation

[PAGE 41]
Industry Partners 41

[PAGE 42]
ANAND Group: ANAND Group was founded by Deep C Anand, and named after the founder. The company manufactures automotive components. It is responsible for introducing diﬀerent kinds of automotive equipment into the Indian market. The history of ANAND dates back to 1961 when Mr Deep C Anand, Founder of ANAND and Chairman of the Deep C Anand Foundation, as an enterprising young man of 27 years, set up his ﬁrst business venture, - Gabriel India. The ﬂagship company of the Group, Gabriel, was set up in collaboration with Maremont Corporation (now Gabriel Ride Control Products of ArvinMeritor Inc.), USA, for manufacturing shock absorbers at Mulund in Mumbai. East West Automation Technology Private Limited: Established in 1994, East West Automation Tech Pvt. Ltd. is an ISO 9001, TS-16949, and UL-certiﬁed company. It is a well-recognized manufacturer and exporter of high-quality wiring harnesses, catering to diverse sectors including automotive, telecommunications, consumer electronics (white goods), and power solutions. The company's product range includes Automotive Harnesses, Telecom Harnesses, CNG Harnesses, White Goods Harnesses, and UPS/Inverter Harnesses. Additionally, it oﬀers a comprehensive range of Molex housings, terminals, connectors, and headers. Jay Bharat Maruti (JBM) Group: JBM group, a joint venture with Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL), is keeping pace with the steep rise in demand and quality of passenger cars/vehicles. Even in the backdrop of entry of international auto players in the country, JBM has successfully expanded its manufacturing capacity and capability. Its world–class manufacturing capabilities include imported and indigenous press lines and robotic welding lines as well as plating and painting facilities. The JBM Group has a Pan-India presence with over 40 production units spread across the country. Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd.: Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd., incorporated in June 2013 and headquartered in Noida, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dixon Technologies (India) Ltd. which is India's leading provider in the Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) sector. As part of the Dixon Group, Padget Electronics plays a key role in advancing India's electronics manufacturing capabilities. Dixon Technologies focuses on high-value segments including lighting electronics, consumer electronics, home appliances, mobile phones, and reverse logistics. Padget Electronics oﬀers comprehensive end-to-end EMS solutions encompassing product design, global sourcing, manufacturing, and quality assurance. The company's manufacturing facilities are accredited with recognized Quality Management Systems and Environmental Management Systems, ensuring adherence to the highest standards of quality, eﬃciency, and sustainability. Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. Since its inception in 2015, Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. has been originating sustainable energy systems that embody several breakthroughs in optics, mechanics, thermodynamics, power electronics and tracking algorithms. It works towards a cleaner world and innovating to develop sustainable energy technology solutions for the future. This company deals with the world's most eﬀcient solar heat generator (CST H3500), AI enabled ultra-high eﬀciency evaporation system, low cost, reliable and durable PV trackers and installations. It has got CST & Solar Cooker Excellence Award 2016, presented at the national workshop on concentrating solar technologies & solar cookers on 29 April 2016 at New Delhi and certifcate of appreciation for proactive manufacturer in innovation of CST Systems by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Govt. of India. Roop Automotives Ltd. (RAL): RAL is one of the largest OEM suppliers of auto components like steering yokes, automotive connecting rods, automotive housing, diﬀerential housings, connecting rods, auto steering parts, and safety automotive parts. RAL has established its name in the auto components industry and has a strong presence in Tier II segment of the industry. Industry Partners 42

[PAGE 43]
Industry Partners Senior India Private Limited: Senior India Private Limited is a UK-based MNC with its headquarters in London. It is registered in the London Stock Exchange. Senior has operations in 14 countries with 33 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Senior India Private Limited is a 100% subsidiary of Senior PLC UK. Senior India was established in 1993 under the name of Inalsa Flexonics that was taken over by the Senior Group in 1998. Senior designs, manufactures, and markets high-technology components and systems for the principal original equipment producers worldwide in aerospace, defense, land vehicles, and energy markets. Senior India is a leading manufacturer of Automotive Flexible Exhaust Connectors (Bellow and Interlock types), and SS Bellows. Senior India has also introduced engine products, viz. EGR coolers, Fuel rails, EGR tubes, Turbo Oil Drains, Turbo Oil Feeds, etc. Hero MotoCorp: Hero MotoCorp Limited is an Indian multinational motorcycle and scooter manufacturer headquartered in Delhi. It is one of the world's largest two-wheeler manufacturers and has a market share of about 46% in the Indian two-wheeler industry. The market capitalization of the company was ₹59,600 crore (equivalent to ₹700 billion or US$8.8 billion in 2023). Hero Motocorp has 05 Manufacturing Facilities based at Dharuhera, Gurugram, Neemrana, Haridwar & Halol. A new manufacturing facility is in the process of being set up in Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh. Spread over 600 acres, the company has invested 1600 crores in setting up this greenﬁeld facility. These plants together have a production capacity of over 7.6 million 2-wheelers per year. Hero MotoCorp has a sales and service network with over 6,000 dealerships and service points across India. It has had a customer loyalty program since 2000, called the Hero Honda Passport Program which is now known as Hero GoodLife Program. The company has an annual capacity of 9.1 million units in its eight manufacturing facilities. Apart from these manufacturing facilities the company also has two R&D facilities, in Germany & Jaipur. SKH Metals Ltd.: Established in the year 1986, Mark Auto was rechristened as SKH Metals Ltd. in 2006 with the management takeover by Krishna Group. It has since then grown from strength to strength in last 7 Years along with its principal customer, Maruti Suzuki. SKH Metals was awarded major business and thus followed MSIL in establishing a new plant in Manesar. This new facility is spread over 4 acres. This facility was further expanded to 6 acres in 2009-10 to service the growing business of MSIL. With MSIL's foray into technology, SKH Metals Ltd. also established various technical alliances with the leading Global Tier 1 auto component manufacturers. With its special prowess and expertise, SKH Metals Ltd. has for three decades been manufacturing products like Fuel Tanks, Axle Housings, and Sheet Metal Welded Assemblies, Suspension Frames, and control arms. 43

[PAGE 44]
44

[PAGE 45]
Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research The Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research (SFMSR) provides a wide range of Academic programs like Certiﬁcate, Diploma, UG, PG and PhD. These programs encompass various streams of Commerce, Management and Hospitality like oﬃce, business, retail, business process, hotel, banking, ﬁnancial services, food service, tourism, and business analytics. The diﬀerent departments within SFMSR include: 1. Skill Department of Management Studies 2. Skill Department of Banking and Finance. 3. Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality 4. Skill Department of Apparel & Textile Design Programs Oﬀered 45 S. No. Program NCrF Level Duration (Yrs) Intake Capacity Eligibility Criteria Industry Partner* 1 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc.) Oﬃce Management 4 2 30 10th or equivalent SOTC, Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd 2 Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Food Production & Traditional Sweets 4.5 1 20 10+2 or 10th + 2 years’ experience or Equivalent Biryani by Kilo (Sky Gate Hospitality), Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country Inn, Sarvatra Group, Courtyard by Mariott Akashganga 3 Undergraduate Diploma in Airlines Management# 5 2 30 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Airport Authority of India 4 B. Voc. - Management (Financial Services) (Hons. / Hons. With Research) 5.5/6 3/4 30 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc), SOTC, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank 5 BBA - BPM and Analytics (Hons. / Hons. With Research) 5.5/6 3/4 30 10+2 OR 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10th plus I.T.I. ( 2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) Concentrix Daksh, Cyfuture, Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc)

[PAGE 46]
Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research * Industry partners are tentative and may be changed as per availability/consent of Industry Partner. #These programs may be oﬀered/shifted from Gurugram campus to Main Campus subject to decision of Statutory Bodies of University 46 6 BBA (Hon./Hon. With Research) 5.5/6 3/4 60 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Spencers Retail, Cantabil Retail, Frontier Group 7 Bachelor of Hotel Management 6 4 30 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Courtyard by Marriott, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country Inn, Sarvatra Group, Akashganga 8 B. Com (Hons. /Hons. with Research) 5.5/6 3/4 60 10+2 in commerce OR 10+2 in other stream with Mathematics/ Economics with minimum 50%marks OR any equivalent Examination All India Chartered Accountants Society, Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc), SOTC, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank 9 M.Voc Management Banking & Finance 6.5 2 20 Graduation/B.V oc with 50% marks HDFC Bank, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank 10 MBA 6.5 2 30 Graduation with 50% Mazars, Dzire, Adamant HR 11 MBA (Business Analytics) 6.5 2 30 Graduation with 50% Mazars, Dzire 12 MBA (Working Professional) # 6.5 2 20 Graduation with 3 years’ experience -

[PAGE 47]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Management Studies 47

[PAGE 48]
Eligibility: th 10 or equivalent NCrF Level: 4 Industry Partner: SOTC, Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The Diploma of Vocation in Oﬃce Management includes the management of all oﬃce work which includes planning, Organising, leading and controlling. It enables students to be professionally trained in diﬀerent aspects of Day-to-Day Oﬃce Management. They are prepared to move into such positions as Typist/Stenographer, Computer Operator, Oﬃce Coordinator, Oﬃce Secretary etc. Eligibility: 10+2 OR 10 plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma OR 10 plus I.T.I. ( 2 Years) with one language th th subject (Hindi or English) NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partner: Concentrix Daksh, Cyfuture, Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc) Duration: 3/4 Years (6/8 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) in collaboration with Concentrix Daksh has designed BBA in BPM & Analytics with Hons./Hons. with Research which is aligned with the NCrF based on the Dual Education Model. This program shall enable students to realize the complexity of processes handled in Business Process Outsourcing Organizations and the importance and application of data analytics in IT/ITeS industry. It will prepare them to access, analyze, manage, and present data to enable eﬀective decision-making in the organization. Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc) Oﬃce Management BBA (BPM and Analytics)- Honours/ Honours with Research Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partner: Spencers Retail, Cantabil Retail, Frontier Group Duration: 3/4 Years (6/8 Semesters) Seat: 60 About the Program: The three/four-year undergraduate BBA program primarily focuses on imparting knowledge of business theories, principles, and practices across various management domains. The objective of the curriculum is to familiarize students with the workings of the corporate and business environment. Alongside developing core competencies in areas such as accounting, information technology, management, international business, and strategic planning, students are also trained in eﬀective communication, leadership, and decision-making skills. This program follows a dual approach, combining classroom-based learning with practical, work-based training. As part of the course, students participate in on-the-job training or internships with reputed organizations, gaining hands-on experience and industry exposure to complement their academic learning. BBA (Hons./Hons. with Research) About the Programs 48

[PAGE 49]
Eligibility: Graduation with 50% NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: Mazars,Dzire, Adamant HR Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The MBA program aims at imparting a strong theoretical foundation in business concepts. It also provides practical opportunities (via internships, group assignments, and individual projects) to access what students learn in the class. The complete program builds hard-skills in the areas of management and leadership and polishes a range of soft-skills like communication, motivation, and negotiation. The program and skills learned during the program open up global opportunities for career growth as well. Apart from the regular lecture-based teaching that most students are already familiar with, pedagogies also employ new methodologies to ensure that the learning is maximized. Eligibility: Graduation with 50% NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: Mazars, Dzire Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: This program is designed to prepare students for careers in the analytical segment of various industries at national and international levels. Students pursuing this specialization will focus on organizational behaviour, big data, predictive analytics, data science, research etc. Individuals, who prefer working with people and developing an analytics career, and are ready for the world of data decision making and research, will ﬁnd this specialization worthwhile. MBA MBA (Business Analytics) Eligibility: Graduation with 3 years' experience NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: SVSU Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 20 About the Program: The Master of Business Administration (MBA) program for working professionals is a two-year degree divided into four semesters, specially developed for corporate leaders and managers who are already in the workforce. The curriculum is intended to deliver real-world insights and practical methods to improve productivity and success. The program covers a wide range of business and management topics and provides a solid foundation in business ideas and practices, preparing participants for professional advancement and cross-vertical movement. MBA (Working Professional) About the Programs 49

[PAGE 50]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Banking and Finance 50

[PAGE 51]
Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partner: Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc), SOTC, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank Duration: 3/4 Years (6 /8Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The ﬁnancial services including retail and corporate banking, investment management, investment consulting, investment banking, mortgages, and life insurance and micro ﬁnancing oﬀers huge opportunities to individuals with required skills.The 3/4-year B.Voc. (Management in Financial Services) oﬀers a wide range of courses to enable individuals to become highly competent professionals for the industry particularly in Microﬁnance, Insurance & Mutual Fund advisory, Investment Banking & Financial Consulting. B. Voc. Management (Financial Services) (Hons. / Hons. With Research) Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partner: Ease My Process (Gujrani & Assoc), SOTC, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank Duration: 3/4 Years (6 /8Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The B.Com. (Hons./Hons. with research) is a professional 3/4 year program aligned to NEP with multiple entry and exit at each year. The Program is divided into 6/8 semesters. Students after 1st year will be eligible to get a UG Certiﬁcate, after 2nd year will be eligible to get UG Diploma and after completion of 3rd year will get B.Com degree and after 4th year will get B Com(Hons)/ Hons. with Research. The Program enables and empowers students to acquire the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to analyze and synthesize the contemporary realities of the domain of business and commerce including accounting, ﬁnance and management. The Program prepares students for market demanding job roles of Business Development, Accountancy, E-commerce, Analyst, Taxation, Financial Planning, Marketing and Business Management etc. for both public and private Sector. B.Com (Honours/ Honours with Research) Eligibility: Graduation/B.Voc with 50% marks NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: HDFC Bank, The Jammu & Kashmir Bank Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 20 About the Program: M.Voc. Management (Banking and Finance Services) range of courses to enable individuals to become highly competent professionals for Banking and Financial Services Sector including retail and corporate banking, investment management, investment consulting, investment banking. M.Voc. Management (Banking and Finance) About the Programs 51

[PAGE 52]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality 52

[PAGE 53]
Eligibility: th th 12 or 10 +2 Years experience or Equivalent NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partner: Biryani by Kilo (Sky Gate Hospitality), Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country Inn, Sarvatra Group, Courtyard by Mariott Duration: 1 Year (2 Semesters) Seat: 20 About the Program: The industry driven by taste buds is recently undergoing a revolution. Indian ethnic foods are ﬁlling up the market space yielded by fast and continental foods. The consumer is gravitating towards Indian food for its simplicity and use of healthy ingredients. To cater to this ever- growing segment, SVSU has designed this program under the dual vocational education model. Processing of food involves the use of raw ingredients to produce marketable food products that can be easily prepared and served to the consumer. Typically processing activities are mincing, emulsiﬁcation, cooking (boiling, broiling, frying, and grilling), pasteurization, preservation and canning, or other packaging. Primary processing also includes dicing, slicing, freezing, and drying when preparing secondary products. Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Food Production and Traditional Sweets Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 5 Industry Partner: Airport Authority of India Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: To tap the immense opportunities in the fast-growing aviation sector in India and the world, this two-year Program is designed for 10+2 qualiﬁed candidates. With intensive coaching in both theory and practice in all areas of airlines and airport management, the Course prepares the students to take up various skill based jobs in Airlines and Airports. Undergraduate Diploma in Airlines Management Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: Courtyard by Mariott, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country Inn, Sarvatra Group Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The Bachelor of Hotel Management at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University brings together fundamentals of business and core human skills. The Program is oﬀered by the Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality, focused on creating the innovative and entrepreneurial minds of tomorrow. The Bachelor of Hotel Management consists of four years of undergraduate study and internships with leading global brands. Oﬀering an unparalleled business education that's balanced between skill component and general education component, our program is grounded in hospitality - the ultimate service business & ideal foundation for leadership training. You will learn how to succeed in business and how to tap into a range of key technical skills, including Food Production, Food and Beverage service, Housekeeping, Front Oﬃce, Entrepreneurship, Data analysis, Project Management, Molecular Gastronomy and other important aspects of the hospitality industry. The Program is aligned with the National Skill Qualiﬁcation Framework (NSQF). After the successful completion of Four-Year Bachelor of Hotel Management the student will be able to work at diﬀerent levels in core departments of Hotels, Restaurant, Cruise liners, Retail stores, Airlines, Railways, Start Ups etc. Bachelor of Hotel Management About the Programs 53

[PAGE 54]
About the Programs Adamant HR Consulting Private Limited: Adamant HR Consulting Private Limited is an integrated HR solution company, established in 2012 with their registered oﬃce at Delhi is a group of Professionals who have been active in the ﬁeld of Human Resource Management, Executive Search, Recruitment Solutions, Temp Staﬃng Services, RPO, Payroll Management, Training, Quality System, Organizational Development, Business Process Improvement, Soft Skill Training, Education and Corporate Services for a long time. They help clients to reach their objective through constantly getting the right people and to help human resource right opportunities, providing full HR solutions to client companies India/ Middle-East/ Other countries with some special services like Executive Search, Recruitment Solutions, Temp Staﬃng Services, RPO, Payroll Management, Training. Airport Authority of India: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is a statutory body under the ownership of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India. It is responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining, and managing civil aviation infrastructure in India. It provides Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air Traﬃc Management (CNS/ATM) services over the Indian airspace and adjoining oceanic areas. AAI currently manages a total of 137 airports, including 34 international airports, 10 Customs Airports, 81 domestic airports, and 23 Civil enclaves at Defense airﬁelds. AAI also has ground installations at all airports and 25 other locations to ensure the safety of aircraft operations. All India Chartered Accountants Society: AICAS – ALL INDIA CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS SOCIETY is a Non-Government Organisation founded in 1989, with the objectives of developing and growth of the profession of Chartered Accountants, to provide necessary education, training, assistance, and guidance to Chartered Accountants to enable them to serve trade, industry & commerce eﬀectively and utilize their professional skills with independence, integrity and intelligence. Biryani by Kilo (Sky Gate Hospitality): Biryani By Kilo (BBK) – India's most loved Biryani & Kebab delivery chain since 2015, with the presence of 70+ royal dine-in outlets pan India is owned by Skygate Hospitality. BBK has spread arms across 29+ cities - Delhi NCR, Mumbai, Pune, Lucknow, Kolkata, Punjab, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Ranchi, Guwahati, Jamshedpur, Goa & Bangalore, reviving the royal traditions in the hearts of India. They are also the ﬁrst ones to introduce 'Handi Biryani' concept and deliver freshly prepared biryani for individual orders. Bikanervala Foods Pvt. Ltd.: Bikanervala Foods Pvt. Ltd. is a leading manufacturer of Indian foods, snacks, and sweets, and restaurateur in India and abroad. Bikanervala has paid ample attention to the aspect of training and skilling of its workforce and has suﬃcient infrastructure. Cantabil Retail: Cantabil Retail India Ltd. is in the business of designing, manufacturing, branding, and retailing apparel under the brand name CANTABIL. The Company started its garments manufacturing and retailing business in the year 2000. The company was converted into a Public Limited Company and received a fresh Certiﬁcate of Incorporation dated August 26, 2009, in the name of Cantabil Retail India Limited. Today Cantabil has a network of 400+ exclusive retail outlets & employee strength of more than 3700+ spread across India. The CANTABIL brand oﬀers a complete range of formal wear, party wear, and casual & ultracasual clothing for Men and Women in the middle to high-income group. Concentrix Daksh: Concentrix, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: SNX), is a technology enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement and improvement of business performance for some of the world's best brands. They create better business outcomes and diﬀerentiate their clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and ﬁnancial services; insurance; healthcare; technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; retail and e- commerce; travel and transportation; and energy and public-sector Industry Partners 54

[PAGE 55]
Country Inn & Suites by Radisson GHPL : Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Sohna Gurugram is a Star Property Hotel located between the cities of Gurgaon and Sohna and provides convenience for business and leisure travelers alike. Courtyard by Mariott: Courtyard by Marriott Aravali Resort Faridabad is Courtyard Faridabad Aravalli Resort is a 158-room Star Property Resort oﬀering an urban retreat near Delhi - NCR unlike any other and is a short drive from Delhi-NCR, Village Pakhal Faridabad and downtown Faridabad. Cyfuture India Pvt. Ltd.: Cyfuture India Pvt Ltd., is vesting organizations of all sizes with inventive business solutions ensuring high-caliber performance and improvised brand image. Being a brand that is internationally famed for stupendous service standards, competent handling of IT infrastructure, and reliable corporate image, they have over 2000 zealous experts catering to the diversiﬁed requirements of businesses from sectors like e- commerce, retail, information technology, software services, education, banking & ﬁnance, and government bodies. Ease My Process: Ease My Process is an outsourced bookkeeping, accounting, taxation, and advisory services provider specialising in providing services to small to mid-size businesses and CPA ﬁrms. They aim to ease and streamline bookkeeping, accounting, payroll, and tax calculation for all types of business and help companies and CPA ﬁrms bring eﬃciency and reduce cost. Frontier Group : Frontier Group is more than 60 years old with its corporate oﬃce in Gurgaon and the business spread over Delhi NCR and Madhya Pradesh.Frontier Group is one of the leading automobile group in India with more than 25 outlets spread across NCR and Madhya Pradesh region.Frontier Group has 6 leading Brands like KIA, Hyundai, Honda, Volkswagen, Skoda & JCB. We have a separate vertical for Used Cars & for Insurance as well. HDFC Bank: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC) was amongst the ﬁrst to receive an 'in principle' approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up a bank in the private sector, as part of RBI's liberalization of the Indian Banking Industry in 1994. The bank was incorporated in August 1994 in the name of 'HDFC Bank Limited' with its registered oﬃce in Mumbai, India. HDFC Bank commenced operations as a Scheduled Commercial Bank in January 1995. Mazars: Mazars is a global professional services network oﬀering a range of services including audit, accountancy, advisory, tax, and legal services. It operates as an internationally integrated partnership, with a presence in over 100 countries and territories, and a global team of over 50,000 professionals. In India, Forvis Mazars is a key player, with a strong national presence and a growing team of over 1,300 professionals. Roseate Hotels & Resorts: Roseate Hotels & Resorts is a brand of Bird Hospitality, Bird Group, India. Roseate Hotels and Resorts is a collection of luxury hotels consisting of seven niche hotels across India and the United Kingdom with more under development. The name 'Roseate' comes from a bird with pink hued plumage. Avant-garde, imaginative and contemporary in design, each Roseate hotel has a story to tell. Key focus is laid on immaculate hospitality and service, strategic location, bespoke design and architecture, aesthetics, exemplary dining and meticulous attention to detail. In India the existing portfolio includes The Roseate New Delhi, Roseate House New Delhi and The Roseate Ganges Rishikesh. Sarvatra Group: Sarvatra Infracon Pvt. Ltd., an Ahmedabad-based company, was incorporated with a mission of adding value to real estate. Sarvatra Infracon Pvt Ltd has launched Akashganga Heritage Resorts and Spa under the ﬂagship of ITC Welcom Heritage and is a part of their Heritage Hills property which has villas established in the lap of heritage nature in the outskirts of Rajasthan & Gujarat at Ratanpur, 98kms from Udaipur. Industry Partners 55

[PAGE 56]
SOTC: Shri Om Transport Express (SOTC), Gurugram – a complete Logistics Solutions company dealing with high-speed long-distance trucking enabled through technology. The operations were started in 2003 to deliver quality transportation services to businesses looking for excellence and innovation. They have strong health and safety standards and ﬂeet maintenance protocols devised to deliver sensitive cargo for sectors such as Automobiles, Pharma, Retail, and E-commerce. Spencer's Retail: Spencer's Retail, owned by RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group is an Indian chain of retail stores headquartered in Kolkata, West Bengal. It has a presence in over 35 cities and its outlets oﬀer multiple formats for retailing food, apparel, fashion, electronics, lifestyle products, music, and books. Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd: Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd is one of the Digital Textile Printing Cluster set up at Faridabad with major apparel manufacturers as its members. The Jammu & Kashmir Bank: Jammu and Kashmir Bank (J&K Bank) is a Scheduled Commercial Bank and one of the oldest private sector banks in India, incorporated in 1938. The bank functions as a leading bank in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and is designated by the Reserve Bank of India as its exclusive agent for carrying out banking business for the Government of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. J&K Bank caters to the banking requirements of various customer segments which include Business enterprises, employees of government, semi-government and autonomous bodies, farmers, artisans, public sector organizations, and corporate clients. The bank also oﬀers a wide range of retail credit products, including home, personal loans, education loans, agriculture, trade credit, and consumer lending, and a number of unique ﬁnancial products tailored to the needs of various customer segments. 56

[PAGE 57]
VALLABHI BHAWA 57

[PAGE 58]
The Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities oﬀers UG Certiﬁcate/ UG Diploma/ Degree/ PG Degree/ Ph.D. level Programs in English Language, German Language, Japanese Language, Music (Folk Art-Banchari), Medical Laboratory Technology, Public Services, Public Policy, Geo-Informatics, Yoga and Spiritual Sciences, Clinical Psychology. The Skill Departments under this Faculty are: 1. Skill Department of Language and Culture 2. Skill Department of Lifesciences & Health Care 3. Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences 4. Skill Department of Security and Surveillance 5. Skill Department of Science and Computation 6. Skill Department of Sports and Yoga Programs Oﬀered S. No. Program NCrF Level Duration (Yr(s)) Intake Capacity Eligibility Criteria Industry Partner* 1 Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Animation, Multimedia and Graphics 4.5 1 20 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 SVSU 2 Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Music (Folk Art -Banchari/ Vocal/ Instrumental) 4.5 1 20 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 SVSU 3 Undergraduate Diploma in German Language 5 2 30 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 Concentrix Daksh 4 Undergraduate Diploma in Japanese Language 5 2 20 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 SVSU 5 B.Voc. (Public Services) 5.5 3 30 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 Udaan IAS Academy 58 Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities

[PAGE 59]
Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities 59 6 B.Voc. (MLT) Honours with Research 6 4 30 10+2 (PCB) or 10+2 and L4 Certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma in relevant ﬁeld for Lateral Entry in 2nd Year. Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, Dr Suraj Prakash Arogya Kendra, Meiro Great Diagnostics, New Mangla Pathology Lab, Paramhans Digital X-Ray & Laboratory, Dayton Natural Resources Pvt Ltd, Medhavi Skillsversity Pvt Ltd 7 B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) 5.5 3 30 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 Ministry of Ayush (Govt. of Haryana) 8 B.Sc. (Clinical Psychology)# 6 4 30 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Sri Sai Sathya Super Speciality Hospital 9 B.Sc. in Mathematics and Computing 6 4 30 10+2 (Senior Secondary) with Mathematics as a compulsory subject from a recognized board with Minimum 50% marks for General category students and A relaxation of 5% for SC/ST/OBC/PWD candidates. 10 PG Diploma Criminal Forensics# 6 1 20 Any Graduate SVSU 11 PG Diploma Public Policy# 6 1 20 Any Graduate IMPRI 12 M.Sc. (Clinical Psychology)# 6.5 2 20 Any Graduate Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Sri Sai Sathya SVSU

[PAGE 60]
Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities *Industry Partners are tentative and may be changed as per availability/consent of Industry Partner. #These programs may be oﬀered/shifted from Gurugram campus to Main Campus subject to decision of Statutory Bodies of University. 60 13 M.Sc. (Geo- Informatics) 6.5 2 20 Bachelor's degree in the ﬁelds of Geography / Environmental Science / Forestry / Chemistry / Physics / Geology / Geophysics / Mathematics / Oceanography/ Agriculture/ Atmospheric Sciences/ Climatology/ Information Science/ Computer Science/ Disaster Management/ Engineering / Town Planning / Architecture / Botany/ Zoology/ allied disciplines with at least 50% marks or OR Masters in Geography with at least 50% marks or equivalent grade in aggregate GMDA 14 M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) 6.5 2 20 B.Voc. MLT/ B.Sc. MLT/ BMLS/ BMLT Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, Dr Suraj Prakash Arogya Kendra, Meiro Great Diagnostics, New Mangla Pathology Lab, Paramhans Digital X-Ray & Laboratory, Medhavi Skillsversity Pvt Ltd, Neuberg Diagnostics 15 M.A. English 6.5 2 30 Any Graduate

[PAGE 61]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Language and Culture 61

[PAGE 62]
Eligibility: th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partner: SVSU Duration: 1 Year (2 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Animation, Multimedia and Graphics is a 1 year (2 semesters) Program at NCrF Level 4.5. The program oﬀers overall training, from traditional print to online and interactive design and multimedia training. Core courses such as page layout, typography, sketching and photography will be taught with a focus on fundamental skills of practice and experience with leading technologies and graphic design software. This Program will help students manage their projects and learn to interact with clients in a professional and productive manner. Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Animation, Multimedia and Graphics Eligibility: th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 4.5 Industry Partner: SVSU Duration: 1 Year (2 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: Banchari/Instrumental/Vocal belongs to old Brij culture. This rich art form is today conﬁned to a few villages in Faridabad and Palwal districts and is being kept alive by few artists through the Guru-shishya Parampara. The art form is mostly dedicated to the worship of Radha-Krishna and divine love, and comprises singing, dancing, and playing of various musical instruments. The songs are based on ragas, which include devotional, rasiya (love) songs, martial, patriotic, Holi songs, singing paeans, and songs to suit every occasion. Banchari artists also stage Ram Leela and other plays. Musical instruments like harmonium, dholak, manjeera, bansuri, and jhanj are played by the artists. The most impressive instrument is the huge nagada (war drum). The Banchari troupe looks simple and rustic, yet impressive, in kurta pajama with a colourful turban and garland. Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Music (Folk Art-Banchari/Vocal/Instrumental) Undergraduate Diploma in German Language Eligibility: th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 5 Industry Partner: Concentrix Daksh Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: The Undergraduate Diploma in German Language is a 2 years Program, where students will undergo classroom training during the ﬁrst 12 months, i.e. the ﬁrst two semesters and will be oﬀered paid internship with Concentrix Daksh/Skill Projects post successful completion of 1 year. It is a job-oriented Program and it provides 100% job assistance to students wherein they don't really have to start looking for a job post completion of the Program. They can start the Program with a complete focus on where they are going to work after its completion. About the Programs 62

[PAGE 63]
Eligibility: th th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10 Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 5 Industry Partner: SVSU Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: Undergraduate Diploma in Japanese Language is a 2 years Program at NCrF Level 5. Haryana has emerged as the hub of Japanese industries besides the neighbouring states of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. These industries require Indian skilled youth with proﬁciency in the Japanese Language. Skill Department of language and Culture oﬀers a world-class language learning ambiance with the latest technology, pedagogy and Program that has been designed in association with industry partners. This Program comes with a conglomeration of skills and pedagogical orientation wherein the focus is equally divided between language proﬁciency and job readiness. The learners would get exposure to various technical, professional, and language skills and will be trained to be informed, dedicated and job-ready employees who can work in various operations from basic to higher levels. Undergraduate Diploma in Japanese Language About the Programs 63 Eligibility: Any Graduate NCrF Level: 6.5 Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: M.A. English program, designed in accordance with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, oﬀers a multi disciplinary approach to the study of English literature and language. The program focuses on developing critical thinking, creativity, and language proﬁciency, preparing students for diverse career paths. With a ﬂexible curriculum and multiple entry and exit points, the program allows students to tailor their learning experience to their interests and goals. The curriculum incorporates ELT, Criticism and Literary Theory, Linguistics and Phonetics, and professional writing, and a range of research and industry oriented courses making it relevant to the needs of the 21st century. By fostering a deep understanding of literary and cultural texts, the program enables students to engage with the complexities of the globalized world. M.A. English

[PAGE 64]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Lifesciences and Healthcare 64

[PAGE 65]
Eligibility: 10+2 (PCB) or 10+2 and L4 Certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld or 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma in relevant ﬁeld for Lateral Entry in 2nd Year NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, Dr Suraj Prakash Arogya Kendra, Meiro Great Diagnostics, New Mangla Pathology Lab, Paramhans Digital X-Ray & Laboratory, Dayton Natural Resources Pvt Ltd, Medhavi Skillsversity Pvt Ltd Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: B.Voc. MLT 4 years Program is an advanced version of the regular B.Voc. in Medical Laboratory Technology program, designed for students interested in a deeper understanding of medical laboratory sciences combined with research exposure. This 4-year program oﬀers specialized training and research opportunities, equipping students with not only the practical skills for medical laboratory work but also the knowledge and experience in conducting scientiﬁc research. The program is more comprehensive and includes both basic foundational courses and advanced research topic. The key points of the program: • Year 1: The students will learn the phlebotomy techniques (Blood sample collection, specimen handling, processing, transportation, biomedical waste, and infection control). After completion of 1 year. The students will get Phlebotomist Technician certiﬁcate. • Year 2: Basics of laboratory science, Histopathology,Cyto pathology, clinical biochemistry, hematology, microbiology and pathology. Students will be taught the fundamentals of medical testing, laboratory equipment, and safety. After completion of 2year. The students will get Diploma in Histo Technique. • Year 3: Completely On Job Training (OJT) in Medical Laboratory, Diagnostic centres and Hospitals, Research Institutions. • Year 4: Specializations such as molecular biology, virology, parasitology, Blood banking. Focus In-depth research projects, and a dissertation or thesis, Biostatics, research methodology. Students may conduct independent research under faculty supervision, contributing to scientiﬁc literature in the ﬁeld of medical laboratory technology. B.Voc. (Medical Laboratory Technology) Honours with Research M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) Eligibility: B.Voc. MLT/B.Sc. MLT/BMLS/BMLT NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, Dr Suraj Prakash Arogya Kendra, Meiro Great Diagnostics, New Mangla Pathology Lab, Paramhans Digital X-Ray & Laboratory, Medhavi Skillsversity Pvt Ltd, Neuberg Diagnostics, Neuberg Diagnostics Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) is a Medical Laboratory Sciences Post Graduate program with the specialization in Microbiology designed to provide students with advanced knowledge and skills in various aspects of Medical Laboratory Sciences. It aims to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of Medical Microbiology techniques, diagnostic procedures, research methodologies, and quality assurance practices. It is a 2-year postgraduate program that includes various research areas with fascinating subjects like Molecular biology, Applied Bacteriology, Medical Mycology, Virology, Bioinformatics etc. During this program, the students are taught about the various disease and diagnosis, treatment and ways to prevent them. The students trained to renders emphasis on how to carry the clinical samples, laboratory test accurately that will help the physicians to make a proper diagnosis. This Program gives opportunity for specialized study in the ﬁeld of Medical Laboratory Sciences for B.Sc. MLT/BMLS/B.Voc. MLT graduates. Candidates who successfully complete M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) course may obtain job as Medical Laboratory Technologist, Research associates, Research Scientist, Scientiﬁc oﬃcer, Laboratory Manager, Laboratory Supervisor, Tutor, Demonstrator, Lecturer, Assistant Professor 65

[PAGE 66]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioural Science 66

[PAGE 67]
Eligibility: th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partner: UDAAN IAS Academy Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: Under the aegis of SVSU, the Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences has taken the initiative to enhance capabilities of students of the country in general and Haryana in particular via a Program called Bachelor in Vocation (Public Services). Public Services is the buzzword everywhere in the county. The purpose of B.Voc. Public Services is not only to oﬀer a Bachelor Program to the youth but also to prepare them for government jobs, especially in the ﬁeld of bureaucracy. Interested students can pursue further studies like Post-Graduation in Political Science and other major Programs. However, the special focus of the Program is on preparing and encouraging students for Union public Service Commission, State Public Service Commission, and other government examinations. B.Voc. (Public Services) B.Sc. (Clinical Psychology) Eligibility: th 10+2 or 10 Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Sri Sai Sathya Super speciality Hospital Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: B.Sc. Clinical Psychology is being oﬀered in collaboration with Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital and Sri Sai Sathya Hospital. B.Sc. Clinical Psychology shall unable students to understand the basic concepts, scope and importance of psychology in life and conduct basic data analysis and interpretation. Trainees shall be prepared to describe key concepts and principle related to Psychological Health, Emotional Health, Social Behaviour, Human Resource Management, Organizational Behaviour, Cognitive System of Brain, Experiment in Psychology and their applications in diﬀerent areas of Psychology and Life. The Program shall also enable them to apply the knowledge to understand the abnormal behaviour, psychological diagnose techniques, diﬀerent psychological problem/diseases their management and treatment. Students shall also be able to undertake basic primary and secondary research. Eligibility: Any Graduate NCrF Level: 6 Duration: 1 Year (2 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: Post Graduate Diploma in Criminal Forensics is a one-year post Graduate Diploma Program of 2 semesters at NCrF level 8 covering aspects of human biology and deals with the application of science and psychology into the scientiﬁc investigation of crime. It is a broad medical subject which includes forensic pathology, psychology, forensic medicine and ontology. Criminal Forensic deals with the study of various methods of scientiﬁc investigation of crime. The course imposes the study of documentation and their analysis and covers a broad range of interesting topics from the evaluation of evidence to the development of methodology to help in the visualisation process of DNA ﬁngerprinting. It PG Diploma in Criminal Forensic 67

[PAGE 68]
PG Diploma in Public Policy Eligibility: Any Graduate NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: IMPRI Duration: 1 Year (2 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: PG Diploma in Public Policy is a 2-semester program for graduates in any stream or working professionals and is aimed to develop the ability to understand policy frameworks and situates the students in the socio-political and economic contexts. This program shall enable students to understand the policy institutions and processes to design policy architecture, evaluate policy impact through micro and large data and qualitative ﬁeld insights. The major objective of this course is to give the student a chance to study the fundamentals of public policy across the broadest possible scope. The Program will be run in Hybrid mode. A hybrid course combines the ﬂexibility of online learning with the personal engagement of in-person classes, oﬀering an innovative and balanced approach to education. This will provide the working professionals with the liberty to accommodate their busy schedule with a mix Eligibility: Any Graduate NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Sri Sai Sathya Super speciality Hospital Duration: 2 Years (4 semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: M.Sc. Clinical Psychology is being oﬀered in collaboration with Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital and Sri Sai Sathya Hospital. M.Sc. Clinical Psychology shall unable the students to understand the concepts, scope and importance of diﬀerent areas of Psychology in life and conduct basic data analysis and interpretation. Trainees shall be prepared to discuss key concepts and principle related to Psychological Health, Emotional Health, Abnormal Behaviour, Cognitive Psychology, Psychological and Psychological aspects. In India, the psychology scope and salary is determined by the skills in analysing, research, mapping complex human behaviour, strong ability to study the characters, etc. this Program will help candidates advance their careers by allowing them to be considered for positions in professional hiring process. Master in Psychology Course has an immensely wide range of career opportunities in most sectors like educational institutions, Rehabilitation Centres, Hospitals Psychiatric Centres, Clinics and Health Centres etc. M.Sc. (Clinical Psychology) has a broad ﬁeld which is applied to various facets of the judicial system where a forensic scientist works on the ﬁndings to extract crucial data for crime investigations involving both the defense and prosecution of criminals and victims. The pedagogy of this course mostly includes practical knowledge of investigating a crime by looking through clues and hints which can be overlooked by a normal eye. 68 About the Programs

[PAGE 69]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Science and Computation 69

[PAGE 70]
M.Sc. (Geo-Informatics) Eligibility: Bachelor's degree in the ﬁelds of Geography / Environmental Science /Forestry / Chemistry / Physics / Geology / Geophysics / Mathematics /Oceanography/ Agriculture/ Atmospheric Sciences/ Climatology/Information Science/ Computer Science/ Disaster Management/ Engineering/ Town Planning / Architecture / Botany/ Zoology/ allied disciplines with at least 50% marks or OR Masters in Geography with at least 50% marks or equivalent grade in aggregate NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: GMDA Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seats: 20 About the Program: Geo-Informatics, represented by its most powerful technological Arms-Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Remote Sensing, and Global Positioning System (GPS) - has become an important part of many discipline and cuts across all areas of the modern information ecosystem. In a developing country like India, GIS is no longer an ascent disciplines. Within a short period, it has permeated into many areas like agriculture, urban planning, infrastructure development, natural resources management, disaster management etc. Geo-informatics is truly a multi-disciplinary subject ﬁnding application in almost all planning, management, and execution phases of developmental projects. 70 B.Sc. in Mathematics and Computing Eligibility: 10+2 (Senior Secondary) with Mathematics as a compulsory subject from a recognized board with Minimum 50% marks for General category students and A relaxation of 5% for SC/ST/OBC/PWD candidates NCrF Level: 6 Industry Partner: SVSU Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: The BSc Mathematics & Computing program bridges timeless mathematical rigor with modern computational innovation. Designed as per the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, this four-year degree program oﬀers a carefully crafted curriculum that allows students to develop deep analytical prowess in pure and applied mathematics while mastering algorithmic design, machine learning, and systems optimization. Through a diverse range of courses like Algebra, Analysis, and Diﬀerential Equations, coupled with cutting-edge subjects such as Cloud Computing, Cryptography, and Stochastic Modelling, students will see how theory transforms into code-driven solutions for ﬁnance, AI & ML, and scientiﬁc discovery. From the third year onward, students will have the option to specialize in areas of their interest. Capstone projects ensure graduates emerge as agile problem-solvers, equipped to pioneer advances in data science, ﬁntech, or fundamental research. About the Programs

[PAGE 71]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Sports and Yoga 71

[PAGE 72]
Eligibility: 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 NCrF Level: 5.5 Industry Partner: Ministry of Ayush (Govt. of Haryana) Duration: 3 Years (6 Semesters) Seats: 30 About the Program: Yoga and Spiritual science has been elevated to the level of universal art where the whole world celebrates 21st June as International Yoga Day. People of diﬀerent ethnicities, cultures, colors and beliefs are united by this ancient art where they perform diﬀerent Yogic postures. In the recent years, Yoga has emerged as a unique site of commerce and entrepreneurship where diﬀerent Yoga Gurus oﬀer various Yoga packages to address health and lifestyle issues. At village or local levels, be it India or abroad, experts with excellent Yoga skills are not only earning their livelihood but also oﬀer jobs to others as well. Skill Department of Sports and Yoga has started a Three Years Program of B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) at NSQF Level 5.5. The Program oﬀers a unique combination of the knowledge, skill and aptitude of this ancient art. The students are exposed to the latest innovations and practices in Yoga with an objective to enable them to become not only healthy individuals but outgoing entrepreneurs. The Program is a combination of theory and OJT/Practical wherein students learn the applications of the theoretical aspects in the classroom. During Program, the students learn the basics of Yoga camp/session management. B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) 72 About the Programs

[PAGE 73]
AYUSH Department Haryana: AYUSH Department Haryana is providing Medical Relief, Medical Education and Health Awareness through AYUSH to the masses particularly in the rural areas of Haryana State. For this purpose, 4 Ayurvedic Hospitals, 1 Unani Hospital, 6 Ayurvedic Prathmic Swasthya Kendra's, 475 Ayurvedic Dispensaries, 18 Unani Dispensaries, 20 Homoeopathic Dispensaries and 1 Institute of Indian Systems of Medicine and Research (IISM&R), Panchkula are functioning. Besides this, 33 AYUSH dispensaries (29 Ayurvedic, 2 Unani & 2 Homeopathic) including 3 Specialty Clinics of AYUSH (Gurgaon, Hisar, Ambala) & 1 Specialized Therapy Centre (Jind) have been relocated and upgraded as AYUSH Wing in 2009-10, 21 AYUSH Wings at District Hospitals & 98 AYUSH IPD (Polyclinic) at CHCs, 109 AYUSH OPD at PHCs, are providing medical relief to the masses and also participation in National Health Programme in the Haryana State. Most of the AYUSH institutions are functioning in the rural and remote areas. AYUSH Department Mission/Vision: • To provide cost eﬀective and equitable AYUSH health care throughout the country by improving access to the services. • To revitalize and strengthen the AYUSH systems making them as prominent medical streams in addressing the health care of the society. • To improve educational institutions capable of imparting quality AYUSH education. To promote the adoption of Quality standards of AYUSH drugs and making available the sustained supply of AYUSH raw-materials. Concentrix Daksh: Concentrix Daksh , a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: SNX), is a technology enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement and improvement of business performance for some of the world's best brands. They create better business outcomes and diﬀerentiate their clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and ﬁnancial services; insurance; healthcare; technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; retail and e- commerce; travel and transportation; and energy and public-sector. Citizens Speciality Hospital: Citizens Speciality Hospital (CSH) provides specialty healthcare based on world-class standards of care and evidence-based protocols across a broad range of medical specialties for inpatients and outpatients. CSH coordinate care in a way that emphasizes on the needs of the patients ﬁrst. CSH value quality and invest in technology proven for clinical eﬀectiveness. They place a high emphasis on exceeding rigorous quality benchmarks related to safety and performance. Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA): Gurugram is governed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram which follows a Mayor-Council system. GMDA (Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority) was formed in 2017. GMDA looks after various departments such as Urban Planning, GeoSpatial, Finance, Admin, etc. It has not only improved a lot of the city's infrastructure but also the quality of life for local residents. Healthians: Healthians is India's leading health test at home service oﬀering a wide range of health tests across 250+ cities of India, and counting. It has a network of state-of-the-art fully automated laboratories and a large team of highly skilled phlebotomists who specialize in sample collection from homes. Technological innovation has been the foundation of the brand in the industry. To ensure accuracy of reports, Healthians has deployed an advanced tech-enabled quality control process. Industry Partners 73

[PAGE 74]
QRG Super Speciality Hospital: QRG Super Speciality Hospital isn't just another hospital but an amalgamation of the best services the healthcare segment can oﬀer. Their excellent medical infrastructure houses a Critical Care Medicine unit for patients with life threatening diseases. Not just that, their highly qualiﬁed team of medical professionals and advanced software system make them an ideal hospital for patients from all walks of life. Neuberg Diagnostics: Neuberg Diagnostics, headquartered in Chennai, is one of India's leading diagnostic service providers, with its presence in India, UAE, South Africa and USA. The laboratories are accredited by CAP & NABL. The group has created accessibility to state of the art diagnostic technologies and possesses some of the ﬁnest clinical Pathologists, Biochemists, Geneticists and several other certiﬁed clinical lab professionals, with the capability to perform over 6000 varieties of pathological investigations. Industry Partners 74

[PAGE 75]
PUSHPAGIRI BHAWAN 75

[PAGE 76]
PUSHFAGIRIBHAWAN 上bh PUSHPAGIR

[PAGE 77]
Skill Faculty of Agriculture Skill Faculty of Agriculture The Skill Faculty of Agriculture (SFA) oﬀers Certiﬁcate/ Diploma/ Degree/ PG level Programs in ﬁeld of Agriculture/Horticulture. These Programs consists of farm and non-farm activities, agriculture extension, applications of technology and microﬁnance to create skilled manpower to cater the needs of various sectors of agriculture. In addition to this, it has the capacity to create entrepreneurs interested in agriculture and allied areas. These Programs cover skilling in collectivization, organic farming, hydroponics, medicinal plants, bee keeping, livelihood, green house, natural farming, dairy analytics, application of GIS, spreadsheet modelling, research methodology, microﬁnance, micro insurance and agricultural extension modules. They bridge the gaps of skilled manpower in various sectors of agriculture. The Skill Faculty of Agriculture is also oﬀering two-year Diploma of Vocation in Horticulture to train students in sustainable farming, organic lifestyle, post-harvest management, marketing, processing and value addition of fruits, vegetables, ﬂowers, medicinal and aromatic plants, landscape, spices and bamboo growing. Besides, Skill Faculty of Agriculture is oﬀering three Short-term Programs on Mushroom producer, Organic grower and Freshwater aquaculture. The Skill departments under this faculty are: 1. Skill Department of Agriculture 2. Skill Department of Horticulture Programs Oﬀered *Industry partners are tentative and may be changed as per availability/consent of Industry Partner. S. No. Program NCrF Level Duration (Years) Intake Capacity Eligibility Criteria Industry Partner* 1 Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.), Horticulture 4 2 30 10th Pass OR Equivalent Shivansh farming, Bluegreens 2 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.), Agriculture 5.5/6 3/4 30 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld Shivansh farming, Farmus Farms, Shabari, Edible Routes, Grow My Crop, Farmus farms 3 Master of Vocation (M.Voc.), Agriculture 6.5 2 20 B Voc. Agriculture or Graduate in any discipline with 50% marks Shivansh farming, Farmus Farms, Shabari, Edible Routes, Grow My Crop, Farmus farms 77

[PAGE 78]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Horticulture 78

[PAGE 79]
Eligibility: th 10 Pass OR Equivalent NCrF Level: 4 Industry Partner: Shivansh Farming, Bluegreen Nirja Duration: 2 Year (4 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: The Diploma in Horticulture is a 4-semester program, where students will undergo classroom training for two semesters and On The Job Training (OJT) for the remaining two semesters with industry partners. The objective of this program is to provide in-depth knowledge and skills related to the cultivation and management of plants, crops, and trees. This program will cover topics such as plant physiology, soil science, pest and disease management, plant breeding, landscaping, and greenhouse management. After completing the Diploma in Horticulture program, a candidate can pursue careers in a variety of ﬁelds, including plant nurseries, landscaping companies, garden centres, and agricultural research organizations. They may also choose to start their own businesses or pursue further education by enrolling in a Bachelor's in horticulture or a related ﬁeld. Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.) Horticulture 79

[PAGE 80]
About the Programs About the Programs Skill Department of Agriculture 80

[PAGE 81]
Eligibility: 10+2 OR Equivalent OR 10+2 with L4 certiﬁcate in relevant ﬁeld NCrF Level: 5.5/6 Industry Partner: Shivansh Farming, Farmus, Grow My Crop, Go Ploh, Edible Routes, Bluegreen Nirja Duration: 4 Years (8 Semesters) Seat: 30 About the Program: B.Voc in Agriculture is a vocational degree program that provides students with specialized training and education in various aspects of agriculture. The program is designed to equip students with the practical and theoretical knowledge required to become skilled professionals in the agriculture industry. The duration of B. Voc in Agriculture program is of four years, and it is divided into eight semesters. The curriculum includes a combination of classroom teaching and practical training, that covers a range of topics such as basics of farming, soil and pest management, crop production, post- harvest technology, hydroponics, and agricultural economics. The program also includes on-the- job training and internships, where students gain hands-on experience in real-world agricultural settings. This helps students to develop the skills required to work in the industry and prepare them for the challenges they may face in their careers. Upon graduation, students can pursue a variety of careers in the agriculture industry, including agricultural consultants, farm managers, extension oﬃces, and agricultural research scientists. They can also opt for higher education and pursue advanced degrees in agriculture or related ﬁelds. Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Agriculture Master of Vocation (M. Voc.) Agriculture Eligibility: B Voc. Agriculture or Graduate in any discipline with 50% marks NCrF Level: 6.5 Industry Partner: Shivansh Farming, Farmus, Grow My Crop, Go Ploh, Edible Routes, Bluegreen Nirja Duration: 2 Years (4 Semesters) Seat: 20 About the Program: M Voc in Agriculture is a postgraduate vocational degree program that provides advanced training and education in various aspects of agriculture. The program is designed to help students develop advanced skills and knowledge in speciﬁc areas of agriculture and prepare them for leadership positions in the agriculture industry. The duration of the program is typically two years and is divided into four semesters. The coursework includes a combination of classroom instruction, practical training, and research. The program covers advanced topics such as plant breeding and genetics, agribusiness management, precision farming, and sustainable agriculture. The program also includes an internship or on-the-job training, where students gain hands-on experience in real-world agricultural settings. This helps students to develop the skills required to work in the industry and prepares them for the challenges they may face in their careers. The program provides a strong foundation in both practical and theoretical aspects of agriculture and prepares students for the challenges of the modern agriculture industry. The course would support them to apply their knowledge for sustainable livelihood and would be backed up with employment opportunities and incubation centres. 81

[PAGE 82]
Grow My Crop : Grow My Crop is a platform where one can subscribe to his/her own organic mini-farm for as low as Rs. 4,500 per month. One can choose the vegetables for diﬀerent seasons as per the seasonal calendar and their farming team takes care of growing them organically, without any chemical intensive methods. Food being consumed is pesticide-free, and chemical/synthetic fertilizers are not used in growing the food. One can then pick up the vegetables from the farm themselves, or the organisation can deliver them to customer's home for a small additional cost. Go Ploh Ventures : Go Plow Farms is a farm-to-table concept with 100% chemical-free production of fruits, veggies, and staples at its cluster of certiﬁed Organic farms near Delhi NCR. It is an initiative of IIT alumni committed to a healthy tomorrow with ZERO chemicals reaching customers' dining tables from Go Plow Farms. It oﬀers 100% Natural and Chemical free food, Ease of accessibility of organic/ chemical-free food promoting Farmer income through Organic Farming using Soil and Water Conservation. Edible Routes : Edible Routes is one of India's largest organic farming organisation. They set up kitchen gardens, rent out community farms for urban growers, conduct workshops on organic farming &amp; sustainability and sell farming products. Edible Routes has a wide range of services and are leading eﬀorts across creation of awareness through Workshops, spreading the joy of Organic through their Online Shop and building a shared economy for those who love farming themselves through their Farmlets business. Bluegreens Nirja: Bluegreens Nirja Private Limited is a Hydroponic company that makes access to healthy and highly nutritious vegetables easy through its state of art urban solutions like hydroponic kitchen gardens with maintenance. Its range of hydroponic setups, including NFT, grow bag, and Dutch bucket systems, suits to unique gardening needs. Their easy-to-use kits are perfect for both beginners and experienced growers and allow one to grow their own fresh produce all year round. Shivansh Farms: Shivansh Farms is a part of Hans foundation that tests simple and eﬀective agricultural technique at research farm in New Delhi. Shivansh compost prepared by them, is a cost-free fertilizer that can transform unproductive land into a thriving farm, enabling farmers to reduce, or completely eliminate the use of chemical farm inputs. Their techniques oﬀer a clear path for farmers to quickly revive the natural fertility of their soil using only materials a farmer could easily access such as leaves, animal manure and water. Farmus Farms: Farmus Farms is a community centric agritech venture that seeks to make the Indian food system chemical free, sustainable, transparent and traceable. Having deep roots in agriculture and thorough knowledge of horticultural sciences, their team is well experienced and equipped with all the ancestral knowledge, latest scientiﬁc research and advancements, technical know-how, ﬁnancial backing and ﬁeld expertise. Their core values are organic and chemical free, progressive farming practices, recycling, ensuring sustainability, reducing environment damage at every end, and fresh food availability to all. Industry Partners 82

[PAGE 83]
83

[PAGE 84]
Admission Procedure Admission Procedure 1. For Out-Campus Programs: The student must have attained the age of 16 years/18 years at the time of commencement of OJT subject to speciﬁc programs oﬀered under diﬀerent Skill Faculties. In case of deviation, the decision of Competent Authority shall be ﬁnal. 2. For In-Campus Programs: there is no minimum age of applying for admissions. 3. No. of seats may increase or decrease without any personal communication to the candidates. 4. In such Programs where the industry partner has yet to be ﬁnalized, detailed information will be released later. 5. The stipend will be paid at the discretion of the industry partners and will be paid exclusively during the OJT period. It is not a matter of right. 6. If the number of students admitted in a Program is less than 25% of sanctioned intake, Program may not be oﬀered. However, fees will be refunded on the request of the student as per guidelines of UGC/AICTE or the student may be allowed to select other Programs based on his or her eligibility subject to availability of seats, however student will have to comply with the selection procedure. 7. The Programs are oﬀered in collaboration and consultation with Industry partners. If proposed industry partner does not accord consent, the Program may not be oﬀered session 2025- 26. The industry partners are tentative and may change. 8. This is for applicable cases for relaxation in minimum eligibility marks for reserved category (SC/ST) Candidates. The Chief Secretary to Govt. of Haryana, Chandigarh conveyed the instructions vide letter No. 22/129/2013-1GS III dated 16.07.2014 regarding prescribing minimum eligibility qualiﬁcation for the various courses for reserved candidates as per the procedure in compliance with the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in CWP No. 7084/2011 e.g. “A General candidate requires to have 50% marks, then as per Govt. instructions by giving 5% relaxation to the minimum eligibility marks for a reserved caste candidate should be calculated as under:- Out of 100 marks needs to less = 5 Out of 1 Marks needs to less = 5/100 Out of 50 marks needs to less =(5/100)× 50 = 2.50 This way, minimum fewer marks where general category candidates are required to have 50% in a prescribed qualiﬁcation, the total required marks for reserved candidates will be 50 – 2.50 = 47.50 and not 45.” 84

[PAGE 85]
Distribution and Reservation of Seats Distribution and Reservation of Seats Category Percentage a) All India Open Category Seats (Including Haryana State) (AIC) 15% of the sanctioned intake Economically Weaker Section (EWS) as per Central Govt. Policy 10% of All India Open Category seats b) State Quota 85% of the sanctioned intake (b-1) Haryana Open General Category (HOGC) 50% of the State Quota i.e., 42.5 % of total intake Economically Weaker Section (EWS) 10% of Haryana Open General Category (HOGC) i.e., 4.25% of total intake (b-2) Reserved Categories of Haryana 50% of the State Quota i.e., 42.5% of total intake Scheduled Caste (SC) 20% of State Quota (17% of total intake) i. 10% of State Quota to Scheduled Castes (8.4% of Total Intake) ii. 10% of State Quota to Deprived Scheduled Castes (8.4% of Total Intake) Backward Classes of Haryana 27% of State Quota (22.95% of total intake) i. Backward Classes of Haryana (BC-A) 16% of State Quota (13.6% of total intake) ii. Backward Classes of Haryana (BC- B) 11% of State Quota (9.35% of total intake) Physically Handicapped (PH) 3% of State quota (2.55% of total intake). Note: It is mandatory to maintain a Roster Register at Departmental level for distribution and reservation of seats. In the event of quota reserved for Physically Handicapped remain unutilized due to non-availability for suitable category of Handicapped Candidates, it may be oﬀered to the Ex-Servicemen and their wards (1%) and the dependents of Freedom Fighters (1%). Further, 3% reservation is also provided to Ex-servicemen/ Freedom Fighters and their dependents by providing reservation within reservation of 1% of General Category, 1% out of Scheduled Caste and 1% from Backward Classes category for admission to the various educational institutions of the Govt. and Govt. aided / Institutes located in Haryana. As far as Block allocation in Block-A and Block B of Backward Classes category is concerned year wise rotational system will be adopted. For example, if Block-A of Backward Classes are given seats in academic year 2018, the next Block i.e., (B) Block of Category of Backward Classes will be given seats in the next academic year 2019 and so on. Further, a roster register for reservation of seats for ex-servicemen/freedom ﬁghters shall be maintained and carry forward all fractions, till one seat is accumulated through diﬀerent fractions over the years. As and when the total comes to one, a seat will be provided. Fifty percent of the twenty percent seats reserved for Scheduled Castes for admission in any educational institution shall be set aside for candidates belonging to deprived Scheduled Castes as enumerated in the Annexure: B-1. 85

[PAGE 86]
Where a seat is reserved for candidate from the deprived Scheduled Castes for admission in Government Educational Institution is not ﬁlled up in any academic year due to non-availability of candidate of the deprived Scheduled Castes possessing the requisite qualiﬁcation, the same shall be made available to the candidate of Schedule Caste. The reservation of seats in various Programs is per the reservation policy of the Government of Haryana and is subject to change/amendments made by the Government from time to time. Supernumerary Seats • 02 seats will be available in each program with an intake up to 30 for the domicile/ residents of Dudhola village Panchayat (s), who have gifted their land free of cost/on- lease to the state government (As per notiﬁcation of the State Government). • 01 seat is reserved for migrants from J&K in each program. • 10% seats are oﬀered to women candidate in each program (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/MBA Executive/ Lateral Entry) Details mentioned in Annexure A-1. • 01 seat for the industry sponsored women candidate in each program (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/Executive MBA/ M.Phil (CP)/Lateral Entry). Details mentioned in Annexure A-2. • The provision for supernumerary seats for international students may be made as per UGC directions (Annexure-1). • The supernumerary seats for PM Cares students will be as per govt./statutory guidelines. Guidelines for Admission R The reservation of seats will be as per the latest Reservation Policy of the State Govt. revised from time to time. R All the eligible candidates irrespective of their category shall be eligible for AIC seats. R All eligible candidates deemed to be Bonaﬁde residents of Haryana for Admission purpose irrespective of their category shall be eligible ﬁrst for HOGC seats. R Candidates who have passed their qualifying examination from a University/ College/ School situated within the State of Haryana, will be deemed Haryana Residents and will not be required to submit certiﬁcate of Bonaﬁde Resident of Haryana notwithstanding the intentions in Annexure B-3 R The admission process for all programs will be held in Physical mode only. No request for attending counselling in online mode shall be entertained. R The Provisional Merit List will be prepared category wise for all programs. Accordingly, Seat Allocation list for all admissions will be displayed on the University website. No personal communication shall be carried out.Allocation list for all admissions will be displayed on the 86

[PAGE 87]
R The candidate(s) will have to deposit fees through online mode (Debit/ Credit card/ Net banking/UPI) only as per the dates mentioned in the counselling schedule. Accordingly, the Provisional Admission Letter shall be issued after the fee deposited by the candidate. R If a candidate does not deposit the fee, then he/she will not be allowed to participate in the subsequent counselling. However, he/she will be allowed to participate in the subsequent cycles of counselling (if any) and also will be allowed to participate in “On the Spot Admission” counseling (date to be announced later on) on the availability of any vacant seat(s). R If at any stage, it is found that the candidate has supplied incomplete and/or false and/or incorrect information, his/her candidature for the program, if admitted, will be cancelled and he/she will be liable for disciplinary action as per the university rules and the fee deposited by him/her shall be forfeited. R The seats remaining vacant in diﬀerent categories after each cycle of counseling will be oﬀered to the respective categories in the subsequent counseling. The schedule of the counseling(s), if any, will be announced later on and shall be published on University website. R If any seat in BC (B) category remains vacant, the same will be ﬁlled up from BC (A) category and vice-versa after second counselling or after the candidate of a particular category is exhausted. R If any seat in SC category remains vacant, the same will be ﬁlled up from SC(D) and vice-versa after second counselling or after the candidates of a particular category is exhausted. R The seats reserved for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) candidates, if remaining vacant after the Physical counselling(s) will be ﬁrst oﬀered to the candidates of the EWS at the start of the physical counselling as per schedule notiﬁed, after being oﬀered to the candidates of EWS if seats still remain unﬁlled after cutoﬀ time as per schedule, the sam ill be converted into General e w Category of Haryana as the case may be. R Beneﬁt of reservation will be given to all the reserved categories upto 3rd Merit List. In case reserved seats other than SC seats are vacant even after 3rd Merit List, then these vacant seats will be thrown open to Haryana General Category. In case, the seats in Haryana General Category remain vacant at the end the same will be thrown to All India Open Category. R Seats belonging to any reserved category will be converted to unreserved category as decided by the university in accordance with the rules of Government of Haryana. However, candidates belonging to respective reserved category fulﬁlling other eligibility conditions will also be considered on priority basis within the limits of time as decided by the University. In the event of seats remaining vacant/unﬁlled, if any, the same shall be ﬁlled up before ﬁnal cut-oﬀ date of admissions without any reservation. R Further, the Vice- Chancellor is authorized to add any instructions related to counselling for all the programs. R The students after seeking the admission in the University Program must ﬁll an online anti-ragging 87

[PAGE 88]
Selection Criteria Selection Criteria The following selection criteria shall be applicable for the academic session 2025-26: Sr. No. Programs Selection Criteria 1. AICTE approved Management programs (MBA and BBA) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the AICTE for session 2025-26. 2. AICTE approved Engineering programs (M.Tech, B.Tech & Diploma in Engineering) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the Haryana State Technical Education Society under the Department of Technical Education, Haryana, for session 2025-26 3. Programs oﬀered with OJT in association with industry partners (Except AICTE approved) 80% weightage to marks obtained in qualifying exam. 20% weightage to marks obtained in personal interview/Group discussion with industry. 4. Programs other than mentioned at Sr. no. 1, 2 & 3 above. On the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying exam. Selection criteria for B. Tech: The selection Process for AICTE approved B.Tech Programs shall be as per the HSTES guidelines. Selection criteria for M. Tech: B.Tech/ B.E. in appropriate area with valid GATE score. 88

[PAGE 89]
Personal Interview/Aptitude Test/Professional Test/Group Discussion is an essential component for admission to various programs for which a list of short-listed candidates shall be prepared keeping in view the reservation policy and number of seats in each category. This list of short-listed candidates shall be displayed on the Notice Board of the University and also on the website. No separate communication will be sent to the candidate. Information regarding location and time of Personal Interview/Aptitude Test/Professional Test/Group Discussion of the short-listed candidates will be available on university website. Candidates must bring the relevant original documents and two sets of self-attested photocopies of documents/certiﬁcates/testimonials for veriﬁcation at the time of Personal Interview/Aptitude Test/ Professional Test/Group Discussion. Note: 1. Candidates must qualify in personal interview, aptitude test, professional test, group discussion, and other tests independently, if applicable, in order to be considered for the program. Merely, Clearing the test or Personal Interview, the student cannot claim for admission, the right to admission is reserved to the University. 2. Candidates in multiples of seven times the sanctioned intake will be contacted for personal interviews/group discussion in the ﬁrst round, based on the merit of the qualifying examination (step.1). 3. Regardless of merit prepared based on the qualifying examination, candidates who were rejected in personal interviews/group discussions will not be considered for the next stage of the selection process (Step no.1). Instructions for Personal Interview/ Aptitude Test/ Professional Test/ Group Discussion 89

[PAGE 90]
Online Application Form Fee Sr. No. Category Portal category code Fee (Rs.) 1. AIC A 500/- 2. HOGC A 500/- 3 BC of Haryana B 250/- 4 EWS of Haryana B 250/- 5 Jammu & Kashmiri Migrants B 250/- 6 Female of Haryana C NIL 7 SC of Haryana C NIL 8 ST of Haryana C NIL 9 PwD of Haryana C NIL 10 Dudhola Candidates D 100/- 11 Saksham Yuva of Haryana E 50/- 12 Abhinandan: Veer Balidani Kritgayata Yojna (AVBKY) Wards & Spouse of Martyrs and Gallantry awards winners F 50/- 13 Transgender G NIL Online Application Form Fee Online Application Form Fee Online Application Form Fee 90

[PAGE 91]
Program Fee Details Program Fee Details Program Fee Details Online Application Form Fee The fee structure for the session 2025-26(₹): 91 Fee Structure for Professional/VocaƟonal Program 2025-26 • D.Voc./UG CerƟﬁcate/UG Diploma/Diploma/B.Voc./BBA/BCA/BCA integrated MCA/B.Sc/B.Com(H)/B.HM/M.Voc./M.Sc./MBA /PGD: - 1. RegistraƟon Fees: 360/- (One Time Fee) S. No. Programme DuraƟon of Course (Semesters) Security Fund (One Time Fee) Admission Fees (One Time Fee) SEMESTER WISE FEE TuiƟon Fee ExaminaƟon Fee Student AcƟvity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B.Voc./B.Sc. 6/8 1000 500 12600 3000 800 1500 1200 19100 2 BBA/B. Com. (Hons. /Research) 6/8 1000 500 15750 3000 800 1500 1200 22250 3 Bachelor in Computer ApplicaƟons BCA/ BCA(Honours) SpecializaƟon in AI&ML/Data Science/ BCA (Honours with Research) 6/8 1000 500 33500 3000 800 1500 1200 40000 4 BCA - MCA integrated Semester 1 to 6 1000 500 33500 3000 800 1500 1200 40000 Semester 7 to 10 1000 500 43500 3000 800 1500 1200 50000 5 B. Hotel Management 8 1000 500 31500 3000 800 1500 1200 38000 6 Undergraduate CerƟﬁcate (1 yr.) 2 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950 7 D.Voc. (2 years) 4 1000 500 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850 8 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 9 PG Diploma 2 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 10 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging (PGDSDP) 2 1000 500 23500 3000 800 1500 1200 30000 11 UG CerƟﬁcate in Music (Folk Art-Banchari) 2 1000 500 525 3000 800 1500 1200 7025

[PAGE 92]
Program Fee Details Program Fee Details Program Fee Details Online Application Form Fee 92 12 UG Diploma 4 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950 13 B.Sc Clinical Psychology 6 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 14 M.A. English 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 15 M.Sc Clinical Psychology 4 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 16 PG Diploma in Criminal Forensic 2 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 17 MBA working Professional 4 2000 2000 44100 3000 3000 6000 6000 62100 18 Diploma (Computer) GeneraƟve AI/ Cyber Security 6 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 19 PG Diploma Public Policy 2 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000 20 UG Diploma in Airlines Management 6 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000

[PAGE 93]
Program Fee Details Program Fee Details Program Fee Details 93 Fee Structure for Technical Program 2025-26 • One Time Fees for B.Tech./M. Tech. /MBA: - 1. Security Fund: -2000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 2000/- 3. RegistraƟon Fees: 360/- S.No. Programme DuraƟon of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE TuiƟon Fee ExaminaƟon Fee Student AcƟvity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Tech. 8 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 2 M. Tech. 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 3 MBA (General) 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 4 MBA (Business AnalyƟcs) 4 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 5 Diploma Engineering 6 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850 Fee Structure Industry Sponsored Candidate for VocaƟonal Program 2025-26 • One Time Fees for B. Voc./BBA/Diploma/D. Voc./M. Voc./M.Sc./PGD/BHM/B. Com: - 1. Security Fund: -1000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 500/- 3. RegistraƟon Fees: 360/- S. No. Programme DuraƟon of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE TuiƟon Fee ExaminaƟon Fee Student AcƟvity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Voc. 6 14700 2500 800 1500 1200 20700 2 BBA/B. Com 6/8 21000 2500 800 1500 1200 27000 3 BHM 8 36750 2500 800 1500 1200 42750 4 Diploma 2 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 5 D.Voc./ Diploma 6 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 6 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850 7 PG Diploma 2 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850

[PAGE 94]
Guidelines for Registration and Fees Submission 1. University issues the notice of registration and fee deposition in every semester as per academic calendar. 2. The students are required to deposit their registration form with applicable fee as per the schedule without late fee. 3. After that, the students are allowed to submit their registration form with applicable semester fee with a ﬁne of Rs.10 per day as per the schedule notiﬁed by the University. 4. University notify the list of registered students who are allowed to attend the classes/OJT 5. Last opportunity is provided to students for re-admission for another 10 days subject to the fulﬁlment of conditions as per university norms. The Un-registered students may apply for Re-registration/Re- admission with recommendation of Program coordinator and respective Dean/Chairperson with semester fees, a Re- admission fee of Rs.1000/- and a ﬁne of Rs.10 per day by taking into consideration of 75% attendance for Theory and 90% for OJT in the semester from the date of re- admission which is mandatory condition for all the students. 6. The students may attend the classes/OJT from the date of registration/Re-admission. 7. Students who failed to submit the fees as above, their names will be struck oﬀ from the University records and will not be allowed to attend the classes. 94

[PAGE 95]
General Instructions for Online Application Form 1. Before ﬁlling the online application form, candidates are required to read the Prospectus / Guidelines / Instructions available on university website carefully. Candidates will submit their application forms online on the link available at University's website: www.svsu.ac.in 2. Student must ensure that the soft copy of latest passport size photograph, signature, academic and other applicable certiﬁcates of required dimension, size and format must be available at the time of ﬁlling the online application. 3. No column should be left blank in the Online Application Form; write N.A. against the column which is not applicable. Otherwise, it will be considered as incomplete and is liable to be rejected. 4. In case any candidate is found to have supplied false information, certiﬁcates, documents, etc. or withheld or concealed some information in his/her Application Form, he/she shall be liable to be debarred from admission to the program. 5. If a candidate is admitted on the basis of the information submitted by him/ her, which is found to be incorrect or false at a later stage, his/her admission will be cancelled and all fees and other dues paid by him/her shall be forfeited. The University/Faculty may also take further action, as deemed ﬁt, against the candidate and his/her guardian. 6. Any legal dispute relating to admission of students will be subject to Courts at Palwal/Gurugram or Courts having jurisdiction in Palwal/Gurugram. 7. As per directions of Director, Higher Education, Haryana, Panchkula, vide their letter no. 18/30-2015 UNP (4) dated 08.03.2017, linking of AADHAR ID with bank account is mandatory for all students to be admitted in the University Teaching Departments/Faculties and aﬃliated Colleges/Faculties w.e.f. the session 2017-18. Every student must be in possession of AADHAR number at the time of admission. 8. Any deviation will only be published on university website and no separate communication will be made. 9. The university reserves right amend any of the conditions/process without any prior notiﬁcations. 10.For the removal of any discrepancy as noted by the admission committee required for the purpose of admission may be given suﬃcient time with information displayed on the University's website. Days and Dates would be displayed in the Admission Schedule. 95

[PAGE 96]
General Instructions for Counselling 1. The merit list based on the selection criterion and reservation policy of Government of Haryana shall be published on the University website. 2. The admission-counselling schedule will be published on University website. University will not make any personal communication. 3. All the applicants mandatorily attend the admission counselling as per the notiﬁed date and time and location. No request of online attending of the admission counselling shall be entertained. 4. Requisite fees as per the program will be accepted through Debit card/Credit card/Bank Draft and will not be accepted in cash. 5. Candidates are required to bring all their original certiﬁcates along with two sets of self-attested photocopies on the day of the counselling. Departmental Admission Team will check the eligibility of the candidates. In case the candidate is found ineligible as per the published criterion, his/her candidature will be cancelled. 6. Admission slip will be issued to those candidates who are found eligible and after depositing the requisite Fees 7. After closing date and time, no application shall be entertained for admission in respect to the published admission counselling. 8. The following original certiﬁcates are required at the time of counselling/reporting: a. Admission form which is available in the Prospectus as per Annexure B-16 b. Matriculation certiﬁcate for veriﬁcation of Date of Birth. c. Qualifying examinations—10th, 12th and Graduation—certiﬁcates: The result of qualifying examination is mandatory for admission to every programme d. Reserved Category {SC/BC/PH (Diﬀerently-abled person)/ EWS/ ESM/ FF, etc. of Haryana} certiﬁcate for Reservation in the proper format, if applicable. Specimen formats are given as per annexures at the end of the prospectus e. Proper 'Income' certiﬁcate/afﬁdavit in case of SC/BC candidates of Haryana seeking any concession/reservation as per Annexure B6-B8 f. Proper 'Income and Asset' certiﬁcate in case of EWS candidates of Haryana seeking any concession/reservation as per Annexure B-12 g. Migration certiﬁcate, if applicable. h. Character Certiﬁcate: -Candidates, who have recently passed/appeared in the qualifying examination during 2023, must submit Character Certiﬁcate from the head of the institution last attended OR Candidates who have passed the qualifying examination as private candidates, should submit their Character Certiﬁcate duly signed by a First-Class Magistrate. Candidates who have gap in their academic career after the qualifying examination must furnish a gap certiﬁcate, in the form of afﬁdavit on non-judicial paper or certiﬁcate from the employer (if in service) and should also furnish separately the Character Certiﬁcate of gap period duly attested by Notary Public as per Annexure B-11 i. Anti-Ragging afﬁdavit has to be submitted by Student and his parents in online or ofﬂine mode as per Annexure B-14A & B-14B j. Gap certiﬁcate, if applicable, as per Annexure B-13 k. Medical ﬁtness certiﬁcate as per Annexure B-15 Under no circumstances original certiﬁcate shall be taken from the candidates. 96

[PAGE 97]
9. Candidates seeking admission for Haryana seats are required to submit a certiﬁcate of bonaﬁde resident of Haryana as deﬁned by the Haryana Govt if they have not passed their Qualifying exam from a Board/ University of Haryana. The Certiﬁcate of Haryana Resident shall be in the formats prescribed by the Govt. and issued by the competent authority. 10. A complete merit list of all eligible candidates will be prepared for each category. 11. Candidates having passed qualifying examination from self- styled Universities/Institutes/Boards declared bogus/fake by UGC and other govt. bodies shall not be eligible for admission to any programme in Shri Vishwakarma Skill University. This list may vary from time to time as per Notiﬁcation of UGC/ other govt. bodies. 12. Any attempt on the part of a candidate, his/her friends, or relatives to canvass or bring inﬂuence to bear upon the University directly or indirectly for securing admission will lead to disqualiﬁcation for admission. 13. If a candidate is admitted on the basis of information submitted by him/her but at any subsequent time, it is discovered that any portion of this information is incorrect or false, the student shall be rusticated from the University and all fees and other dues paid until the date of such removal shall be forfeited. The University may take any further action it may deem ﬁt against the said student and his/her guardian. 14. In case of any ambiguity in rules, the interpretation of the same by the Vice-Chancellor shall be ﬁnal. 15. All the rules and regulations for submission of migration certiﬁcate by candidates who have passed the lower examinations from other Universities/Boards will be applicable as per University Rules. 16. The entire University Campus is a 'No Smoking Zone'. As such, smoking is strictly prohibited in the University premises. It is a punishable oﬀence. 17. The University has a provision of uniform for students and every admitted student has adhere to uniform. 18. Nothing contained in this Information Brochure shall be construed to convey sanction or cited as an authority for which University regulations alone are applicable. 19. Every candidate of Haryana has to submit the copy of Parivar Pehchan Patra. 20. Problems regarding admission, if any would be addressed by the Grievance Redressal Committee of the University if the same has not been addressed by the Admission Committee. 21.Discrepency as noted by the Admission committee will have to be removed by the candidates before they are allowed for the G.D./P.I. 97

[PAGE 98]
Tentative Schedule for Admission 1. The Proposed schedule for admission 2025-26: Tentative Schedule of Events for UG certiﬁcate/UG Diploma/Diploma/D.Voc/UG programs-B.Voc/ BBA/B.Com/B. Hotel Management, etc. Sr. No. Event Date 1. Online Filling of application form 15th May 2025 onwards 2. The last date for Online Submission of Application Form 25th June 2025 3. Result of Candidates Selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion 08th July 2025 4. Personal Interview/Group Discussion 10th July 2025- 15th July 2025 5. 1st Counselling & 2nd Counselling 17th July 2025 – 25th July 2025 7. Final Merit 29th July 2025 8. Commencement of Program 04th August 2025 9. Spot counselling (In case of any vacancy only) 14th Aug 2025 - 18th Aug 2025 98

[PAGE 99]
Note: - These are tentative dates any change may be notiﬁed on University website and no separate communication may be made. The Schedule of Admission in B.Tech. courses shall be same as per notiﬁed by HSTES, Haryana. UGC/AICTE guidelines for refund of fees published time to time. The admission schedule for Admission in B.Tech Programs/Diploma Engineering programs may be as per guidelines issued by Haryana State Technical Education Society under the Department of Technical Education, Haryana for session 2025-26. Tentative Schedule of Events for PG Diploma/PG Programs-M.Voc. /MBA/M. Tech /M.Sc., etc. Sr. No. Event Date 1 Online Filling of application form 16th June 2025 2 Last Date for online Submission of application form 21st July 2025 3 Result of candidates selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion by each skill faculty 24th July 2025 4 Personal Interview/Group Discussion 29th to 31st July 2025 5 1st Counselling 06th – 07th August, 2025 6 2nd Counselling 08th August 2025 7 Final Merit 13th August 2025 8 Commencement of Program 14th August 2025 9 Spot counselling (In case of vacancy) 18th -29th August, 2025 99

[PAGE 100]
Facilities @SVSU Facilities @SVSU 100

[PAGE 101]
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University is committed for providing facilities, safety and learning environment to its students. To actualize this vision, the university provides hostel facility for both the Girls and Boys. The six stories constructed buildings of both the hostels provide the residential facility, indoor/outdoor games, common room, and study room facilities. The accommodation is provided as 4 seaters, 3 seaters and single seaters depending upon the level of academic program, student will be provided the accommodation. The hostel has been built with modern amenities and ensured that the students do not face any kind of inconvenience. The hostel is equipped with major facilities such as Reading room with newspapers and magazines, common rooms with LED TVs, high speed Wi-Fi, Water coolers ﬁtted with RO, CCTV cameras and security guards. The hostels provided withindoor and outdoor games for recreation & entertainment of the residents within hostel premises. Fee and Security Deposit S.No Nature of fee/ Security payable Amount (Rs.) 1. Hostel Security 5000.00 (Refundable)* 2. Hostel Mess Security 5000.00 (Refundable)* 3. Hostel Charges 11000.00 (per semester) *Any changes in the fee structure will be updated on university website time to time About The Hostel About The Hostel 101

[PAGE 102]
Hostel Administration S.No. Designation Name Email-Id 1 Chief Hostel Warden Prof. Rishipal chw@svsu.ac.in 2 Warden (Boys Hostel – Kailash Bhawan) Dr. Mohit Kumar Srivastav hwb@svsu.ac.in 3 Warden (Girls Hostel – Himadri Bhawan) Dr. Bhwana Rooprai hwg@svsu.ac.in 4 Supervisor (Boys Hostel – Kailash Bhawan) Mr. Satish Budhwar hsb@svsu.ac.in 5 Supervisor (Girls Hostel – Himadri Bhawan) Dr. Sonia Sharma hsg@svsu.ac.in Hostel Accommodation Capacity Boys Hostel (Kailash Bhawan) Accommodation Capacity 490 Single Seater Rooms 090 Three – Seater Rooms 080 Four – Seater Rooms 040 Girls Hostel (Kailash Bhawan) Accommodation Capacity 490 Single Seater Rooms 090 Three – Seater Rooms 080 Four – Seater Rooms 040 About The Hostel 102

[PAGE 103]
About The Hostel 103

[PAGE 104]
Facilities @SVSU Facilities @SVSU Centre of Excellence at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University in Haryana was established in 2023 with a clear mission to bridge the gap between academic learning and practical application. Under the visionary leadership of founding Vice Chancellor Prof. Raj Nehru, this ﬂagship centre aims to provide exceptional skill education, empowering students to excel in the workforce and contribute meaningfully to society. Centre of Excellence Centre of Excellence 2019 Concept Development for Setting Center of Excellence 2022 Advance CNC & Advance Electrical Inaugurated by Hon'ble Governor Sh. Bandaru Dattatreya 2023 Centre of Excellence Inaugurated by Hon'ble Chief Minister Sh. Manohar Lal By aligning with the university's vision, the Centre of Excellence seeks to emerge as a premier institution for skill development, fostering a dynamic learning environment that equips students with the necessary knowledge, skills, and competencies. This initiative is particularly signiﬁcant, given India's rich history of vocational and skill education, which dates back to ancient universities like Takshila and Nalanda. Centre of Excellence is set to play a pivotal role in shaping the future of education and employment in India with its focus on practical application and industry-ready skills. The CoE aims to produce skilled professionals who can drive innovation and growth in various sectors by providing students with hands- on experience and exposure to cutting-edge technologies. Ultimately, the Centre of Excellence at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University represents a signiﬁcant step towards realizing the university's vision of creating a skilled and empowered workforce that can contribute meaningfully to society. The Centre of Excellence at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University serves as a hub of expertise in cutting-edge technologies, catering to the skilling, up-skilling, and training needs of both academia and industry. With a comprehensive range of specializations, including Advance CNC Machining, Advance Welding Technology, Advance Mechatronics, Advance Solar, Advance Electrical, Electrical Vehicle, Robotics and Automation, AI, and Cyber Security, this centre is poised to address the evolving demands of the job market. 104

[PAGE 105]
Centre of Excellence About Centre of Excellence The Centre of Excellence (COE) at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University aims to achieve the following objectives: • Bridging the Skill Gap: Strengthen the technical skills of students through comprehensive training programs, aligning with industry demands and job roles. • Emerging Technology Focus: Develop specialized training programs in speciﬁc sectors, emphasizing emerging technologies to enhance students' employability. • Enhancing Employability: Leverage latest technologies to boost students' employability, making them industry-ready professionals. To achieve self-sustainability, the Centre of Excellence has outlined a multidimensional revenue generation strategy. This includes: • Oﬀering specialized training programs to individuals and organizations as per the growing demand for skill development. • Development of production tie-ups with leading industries, facilitating collaborative research and development initiatives. • Providing consultancy services to Industry and government agencies. • Exploring government and corporate funding schemes, securing grants and investments to support research and infrastructure development. By diversifying its revenue streams, the Centre of Excellence aims to become a ﬁnancially independent entity, capable of continuing its mission to create industry-ready talent and drive societal transformation. Through its innovative approach, the centre is set to emerge as a model for sustainable skill development and technological advancement. 105

[PAGE 106]
Advance CNC Machining Advance CNC Machining Skill Department of Automotive Studies has established a state-of-the-art Advance CNC Machining Laboratory at Centre of Excellence. This cutting-edge facility is designed to provide students with comprehensive training on CNC machining, empowering them to excel in the automotive manufacturing industry. The laboratory features a CNC Simulator with advanced 3D simulation capabilities, enabling realistic virtual machining experiences. This innovative technology allows students to develop machinist skills without exposure to physical risks associated with operating heavy machines. Simulator's key beneﬁts include Enhanced safety, reduce material waste, and provide Realistic experiences. Hands on training on industry grade CNC Turning & VMC with FANUC and SIEMENS controller upskill students' knowledge in CNC Machining operations, CNC programming, Tooling & Quality control. This Laboratory oﬀers live industry projects to bridge the gap between academia and industry. Students work on real-world challenges, applying theoretical knowledge to practical problems. This collaborative approach ensures students are Industry-ready, Familiar with industry standards and Equipped with problem-solving skills Salient Features: ± CNC Turning and VMC with “FANUC i10 and SIEMENS 808D” Control Panels ± CNC Simulator with Fanuc/ SIEMENS/ Mitshibushi controller of world's leading make “RenAn” Taiwan Patented Technology ± MASTERCAM 2024 Faculty/ Staﬀ: Dr. Sanjay Kumar (Master Skill Instructor) Mr. Durgesh Gupta (Skill Instructor) Mr. Gurdeep Kumar (Skill Instructor) 106

[PAGE 107]
Advance Welding Advance Welding Skill Department of Automotive Studies has established a state-of-the-art Advance Welding Laboratory equipped with cutting-edge technologies from ESAB, a renowned American-Swedish company at Centre of Excellence. This laboratory provides a comprehensive platform for skill development in welding. Advance Welding laboratory equipped with an heavy-duty, industry-grade welding equipment, including TIG Welding/ GTAW, MIG Welding/ GMAW, SMAW and Oxy-Acetylene Welding. These advanced technologies enable students to acquire expertise in various welding processes, preparing them for the diverse requirements of modern industry. Under the guidance of experienced instructors of advance welding, students receive hands-on training and exposure to Latest welding equipment and technologies, Safety protocols & best practices and Material handling & preparation. While training on the latest welding technologies, students become Industry-ready professionals, equipped to start their own welding business/ venture and prepared for careers in automotive manufacturing, aerospace, construction, and other industries. Salient Features: ± Metal Inert Gas Welding/GMAW (ESAB) ± Tungsten Inert Gas Welding (ESAB) ± Metal Arc Welding (ESAB) ± Oxy-Acetylene Gas Welding (Messer) Faculty/ Staﬀ: Ms. Ekta (Skill Assistant Professor) Mr. Brijesh Poswal ( Foreman) Mohd. Saalim (Skill Instructor) 107

[PAGE 108]
Advance Mechatronics Advance Mechatronics Skill Department of Automotive Studies established this futuristic laboratory Advance Mechatronics Laboratory at Centre of Excellence which is equipped with industry-leading technologies from FESTO and SMC, includes Pneumatic and hydraulic system training, Programmable Logic Controller training, Modular Production System (MPS) stations for lean manufacturing and Industry 4.0 enabled modules for smart manufacturing. Advance Mechatronics provides hands-on learning environment to students, bridging the gap between theoretical knowledge and practical application. Hands-on experience in the Advance Mechatronics develops comprehensive skills in designing, assembling, and programming integrated mechatronics systems. These systems encompass a wide range of applications, including automated manufacturing, robotics, and advanced control systems. By working on real-world projects, students master PLC programming, enabling them to create customized solutions for various industrial challenges. Student acquire expertise in integrating hardware and software components, troubleshooting complex systems, and optimizing performance. This unique blend prepares students for exciting careers in automation, robotics, and embedded systems Salient Features: ± Pneumatic/Hydraulic Setup ± Electro Pneumatic/Hydraulic Setup ± PLC Training Setup ± Stamping and Sensor Training Setup ± Modular Production System with 3 MPS Setup ± Assembled Industry 4.0 enabled Module Faculty/ Staﬀ: Mr. Dinesh (Skill Assistant Professor) Mr. Jagbir Singh (Master Skill Instructor) 108

[PAGE 109]
Advance Electrical Lab Advance Electrical Lab Skill Department of Green Technology has established the Advance Electrical Laboratory at Centre of Excellence. The latest technologies and facilities are created to provide students with comprehensive, hands-on training in electrical engineering. Laboratory focuses on key areas of electrical engineering, including Power converter-based systems for enabling students to design and develop eﬃcient power conversion solutions, PWM techniques for controlling power electronic devices, Power quality indices, Energy eﬃciency analysis of various power electronic systems, Battery charging techniques, Essential for electric vehicle (EV) technology Control of EV drives, Advanced energy auditing for industries, Integration of solar PV with other energy sources and grid. Laboratory aims to equip students with practical knowledge and skills in advanced electrical systems and rapidly evolving green technology. Comprehensive training make students ready for critical job roles in electrical and renewable energy sectors, including Motor Control/Variable Frequency Drive Operator, E- Rickshaw Maintenance Technician/Engineer, Inverter/UPS Technician, Heating Oven System Designer and Advanced Energy Auditor. ² Salient Features: ² BLDC Drive System ² 3-phase AC power Controller ² 1-Phase/ 3-Phase PWM AC Power Controller ² 1-Phase Single Pulse PWM Inverter ² 1-Phase/ 3-Phase Induction Motor with DC Generator ² 1-Phase/ 3-phase Semi Controlled Phase Control Rectiﬁer Faculty/ Staﬀ: Dr. Preeti (Skill Assistant Professor) Mr. Puneet Raghav (Foreman) 109

[PAGE 110]
Advance Solar Lab Advance Solar Lab Skill Department of Green Technology has established a state-of-the-art Advance Solar Laboratory at Centre of Excellence. This cutting-edge facility provides comprehensive hands-on training on photovoltaic and solar thermal technologies, energy storage, and concentrating solar power setups, catering to the growing demands of the renewable energy industry. The laboratory is equipped with advanced setups to provide students with practical experience in Photovoltaic (PV) systems design, installation, and maintenance, Solar thermal systems, including water heating and space heating, Energy storage solutions, such as battery banks and inverters and Concentrating Solar Power systems. Hands-on training develops essential technical skills, including Designing & installing solar energy systems, Troubleshooting and maintaining PV and thermal systems, Analyzing system performance, Integrating energy storage solutions, and optimizing eﬃciency. Prepare students for real-world applications in the renewable energy industry, including Solar power plant installation/ maintenance, Energy auditing and eﬃciency optimization & Sustainable building design ² Salient Features: ² Solar PV Training System ² Solar Thermal Energy Storage System ² Solar Concentrator Training System ² Solar Thermal Training System ² ETC Characterization System for Thermal Analysis of Fluids Faculty/ Staﬀ: Dr. Sunil Kumar Sharma (Skill Assistant Professor) Mr. Parveen (Skill Instructor) 110

[PAGE 111]
S u c c e s s S t o r i e s of Centre of Excellence Success Stories of Centre of Excellence Organised State Level Skill competition on Autonomous Mobile Robotics at Centre of Excellence State Level Skill competition was organised at Centre of Excellence in March 2024 in collaboration with Skill Department of Industry 4.0 in which students showcase their skills in designing, fabricating, and programming mobile robots. Participants are tasked with designing and fabricating of autonomous mobile robots capable of completing speciﬁc challenges in compliance with the rules of skill competition in the presence of jury members from their domain area. One Week Training Program on Welding Technology for the Training of Trainers and selected students to represent Haryana for National Level Skill Competition 2024 Skill Department of Automotive Studies and Centre of Excellence organised One-week program on Welding Technology in April 2024 for the training of our trainers (MSI/Foreman/SSI/SI) and student selected to represent Haryana in National Level Skill Competition 2024 by domain expert from Mahindra & Mahindra, Indore (MP). Training Program for Autonomous Mobile Robotics for the training of selected students to represent Haryana for National Level Skill Competition 2024 Skill Department of Industry 4.0 and Centre of Excellence organized training of our students selected in Autonomous Mobile Robotics skill to represent Haryana in National Level Skill Competition 2024. Planned with focus on enhancing the technical proﬁciency of students and equip them with the necessary skills for preparing them to compete at the National level of Skill competition. One Week Training Program on MasterCam 2024 Centre of Excellence and Skill Department of Automotive Studies organised One-week training program on MASTERCAM 2024 in May 2024 for the training of our trainers (MSI/ Foreman/ SSI/ SI). Training program was designed with a focus on enhancing the technical proﬁciency for designing and CNC programming using MasterCam software in Manufacturing. . 111

[PAGE 112]
S u c c e s s S t o r i e s of Centre of Excellence Organised National Digital Skillathon 2024 during World Youth Skill Day July 17, 2024. National Level Digital Skillathon was organised at Centre of Excellence in July 2024 in collaboration with Skill Faculties/ Departments in which 500+ students registered in 14 diﬀerent skill domains. 50% participants are from other universities out of which 14% participants are from other states. Total 08 students represent Haryana for National Level Skill Competition 2024 in diﬀerent Skills Brick Laying (Bronze Medal) Mr. Gulshan Diploma in Draftsman Welding (Medal of Excellence) Mr. Abhishek Verma B.Voc Mechatronics Cyber Security (Medal of Excellence) Mr. Punit Kumar B.Tech CSE/AI&ML Robot System Integration Mr. Aditya Singh & Mr. Mukul Kumar B.Voc Robotics and Automation Health and Social Care Ms. Himanshi B.Voc Medical Laboratory Technician Autonomous Mobile Robotics Mr. Baldev & Mr. Vasu Sharma B.Voc Robotics and Automation 112

[PAGE 113]
S u c c e s s S t o r i e s of Centre of Excellence Total 18 students from our Shri Vishwakarma Skill University are awarded by the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Haryana during Youth day held on 12/08/2024 for securing position during State Level Skill Competition. Gold: Rs 11,000/- ; Silver Medal: Rs 5,100/- ; Bronze Medal: Rs 3,100/- Skill Department of Automotive Studies Welding Gold Medal: Abhishek Verma Silver Medal: Raman CNC Turning Bronze Medal: Praveen Kumar Industrial Automation Control Bronze Medal: Tarun Singh Skill Department of Construction & Technology Brick Laying Gold Medal: Gulshan Silver Medal: Rohan Bronze Medal: Ajay Kumar Skill Faculty of Applied Science and Humanities Health & Social Care Gold Medal: Himanshi Silver Medal: Renu Bronze Medal: Nazma Skill Department of CS/IT Cloud computing Bronze Medal: Deepanshu Cyber Security Silver Medal: Punit Kumar Skill Department of Industry 4.0 Robotic Integration Gold Medal: Aditya Singh Silver Medal: Mukul Kumar Pal Autonomous Mobile Robotics Gold Medal: Baldev & Vasu Bronze Medal: Reetika & Bhumika Consultancy Project for conducting the One Day Workshop on the Skill Ecosystem for Students and Staﬀ of Governm 113

[PAGE 114]
S u c c e s s S t o r i e s of Centre of Excellence Glimpse of Center of Excellence 114

[PAGE 115]
Sports & Infrastructure Sports & Infrastructure 115

[PAGE 116]
Central Library Central Library The Central Library continued to march to its mission of facilitating the creation of new knowledge through the acquisition, organization and dissemination of library materials. It played a vital role of skill based research and academic activities in SVSU. It oﬀered a range of library services including reference and consultation, membership and circulation, document delivery, resource sharing, information alert service, document delivery, resource sharing, information alert service, user awareness programs, and ICT- enabled web-based services. The Library facilitates in excellence in teaching and creates an appropriate learning and research environment, anticipates and responds to students and research scholars in learning and research needs, and provides the information infrastructures essential in today's changed environment. The Central Library not only proactively works on its collection building and infrastructural augmentation but also put lot of emphasis on facilities for users based on ICT. The Library has started some advance library services like Research Assistance Service, Remote Access Service, Inter Library Loan, Web OPAC, E-Granthalaya App and Remote App, Plagiarism Detection Services, Current Awareness Bulletin, Online Reservation of reading materials, Automated Library users' attendance system etc. Highlights of the Central Library è The Central Library is established in Sharda Bhawan with state of art facilities in campus. è Library is fully air-conditioned with Wi-Fi facility. è Library is fully automated through standard library management software and related advance digital technologies. è Library has separate website, digital library, digital repository and can be reached by its website: https://svsulibrary.in è Library provides research assistance services through anti-plagiarism software Turnitin/ Drillbit software and access e-journals databases through One Nation and One Subscription (ONOS), Govt. of India. è Library oﬀers online library catalogue (Web-OPAC) to know status of available books, reserve books, due date of issued reading materials. è Library provides e-library facilities with advance computers along with printing and scanning facility. è Library is having collection of 17000 printed books, 25000 e-books and 12000 e-journals (subscribed and open access) of reputed publishers like Springer/ IEEE / Mc Graw Hill, Wiley, Prentice Hall, Pearson Education etc. accessible 24x7 through Remote Access Facility. è The Central Library is having an institutional membership of National Digital Library of India, DELNET/ DELDRESS and UGC-INFLIBNET Projects. è The CCTV Cameras keeps surveillance in the whole library. è Library organise workshop, seminar, orientation and induction sessions, book review, book exhibition for the library users regularly. 116

[PAGE 117]
CentralLibrary

[PAGE 118]
Transport Facility Transport Facility Transport facility will be available on selective routes subject to availability of candidates on payment basis. 118

[PAGE 119]
Glimpses of Placement of Students Glimpses of Placement of Students 119

[PAGE 120]
Glimpses of Placement of Students 120

[PAGE 121]
Glimpses of Placement of Students 121

[PAGE 122]
List of Potential Recruiters List of Potential Recruiters S. No. Company Name 1 TR Solutions LLP 2 Adisoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 3 Orangewood Automation Pvt. Ltd. 4 UA Consultant 5 Insurance Dekho 6 Imperial Auto Industries Ltd. 7 Addverb Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 8 JBM Group 9 Vipul Motors 10 Shabri.AI 11 Tetrahedron Manufacturing Services Pvt. Ltd. 12 Mount Talent Consulting Pvt. Ltd. 13 Arvindo Hitech Pvt. Ltd. 14 Auto Ignition Pvt. Ltd. 15 KisaanSay 16 Arvind Engineers 17 East West Automation Pvt. Ltd. 18 Skytech Robotics 19 Elite Recruitments 20 NTK India Hydraulic Components Pvt. Ltd. 21 DR REMEDIES LABS PVT. LTD. 22 Of Business 23 Imperial Auto Industries Ltd. 24 Metalman Micro Turners 25 Concentrix 26 More Retails 27 Prem Motors 28 Trinity Touch Pvt. Ltd. 29 Fidus Energy Pvt. Ltd. 30 Kaynes Technology India Ltd. 122

[PAGE 123]
"My journey at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University was not just academic—it was transformational. The B.Voc Agriculture program provided a perfect blend of theoretical knowledge and practical exposure. Through multiple internships across reputed organizations during my course, I gained invaluable insights into the functioning and challenges of institutions working in the grassroots development sector. This experience laid the foundation for my career as a social venturist. Today, I lead two impact-driven organizations working at the intersection of social innovation, sustainability, and rural development. Our work involves strategic partnerships with NGOs and PSUs, driving large-scale impact initiatives. I'm proud to share that we also have an MoU with the SVSU Skill Innovators Foundation, where we serve as their Project Management Unit (PMU) under the consulting wing. This ongoing association with SVSU is a testament to the university's commitment to nurturing real-world skills and fostering entrepreneurial thinking. I wholeheartedly recommend SVSU to aspiring change makers who want to convert knowledge into action and passion into purpose.” Sandeep Kumar Course: B.Voc Agriculture (2019–22) Current Designation & Organisation: Managing Director, CRARS Impact Consulting Pvt. Ltd. Director, Vishuddhya Innovations Pvt. Ltd. My Journey at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University: A Testament to Excellence* Greetings to the SVSU community, It is with great pleasure that I reﬂect on my transformative journey at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU). As a proud alumnus, my time at SVSU has been nothing short of enriching and pivotal in shaping my career as a Robotics Engineer. I embarked on this journey with a profound curiosity for robotics and a drive to excel. SVSU provided the perfect platform to hone my skills through its rigorous curriculum and state-of-the-art facilities. The hands-on learning approach and industry-aligned courses equipped me with not only theoretical knowledge but also practical insights that are crucial in today's competitive world. One of the deﬁning moments of my journey was participating and excelling in national and regional level competitions such as World Skills and India Skills. Winning both gold and bronze medals was a testament to the exceptional training and support I received from SVSU. These achievements not only boosted my conﬁdence but also opened doors to numerous opportunities in the ﬁeld of robotics. SVSU stands out not only for its academic excellence but also for its holistic approach to education. The supportive faculty members and mentors played a pivotal role in nurturing my passion and guiding me towards my career goals. Their constant encouragement and belief in my abilities empowered me to push boundaries and strive for excellence. Today, as a Robotics Engineer at SkyTechRobotics, I attribute a signiﬁcant part of my success to the strong foundation laid at SVSU. The university not only imparted technical skills but also instilled in me a sense of leadership, innovation, and perseverance. These qualities continue to deﬁne my professional journey as I work on cutting-edge projects that contribute to advancements in robotics technology. I am immensely grateful to SVSU for providing me with a conducive learning environment and shaping me into a competent professional. The lessons learned, friendships forged, and experiences gained during my time at SVSU continue to guide and inspire me in my career. I urge current and prospective students to make the most of their time at SVSU. Embrace every opportunity, challenge yourself, and strive for excellence. Your journey at SVSU will not only prepare you for a successful career but also empower you to make a meaningful impact in the world. Thank you, SVSU, for being a cornerstone in my journey to success. Warm regards, Duni Chand Course: Robotics and automation (2020-23) Robotics Engineer , SkyTechRobotics. The MBA program at SVSU had a signiﬁcant impact on my professional development. It is a demanding and intensive program that will help you take your career to the next level. For me there were several factors impacting my decision to attend SVSU over other schools. The integration with the business community was most important to me. Also learning in a cohort environment helps ensure your success as an individual. Lastly SVSU provides the best value, keeping the cost of the program competitive. Also please ﬁnd the photograph attached for your ready reference. VIKRANT GOLA MBA (2021-2023) Assistant Manager - Sales & Marketing DIC INDIA LIMITED Alumni Success Stories Alumni Success Stories 123

[PAGE 124]
During my time at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, I started early by attending career fairs and participating in internship programs. I had the opportunity to work as a Public Sector Consultant at Grant Thornton LLP, which was a great achievement and a wonderful learning experience. I built my network with professionals, developed my skills through relevant courses and certiﬁcates like Predictive Analytics from IIM Bangalore and PowerBI, and gained practical experience through internships.The university's support, including mock interviews and feedback sessions, helped improve my skills and conﬁdence. Graduating with an 8.03 CGPA in the ﬁrst division, I secured a placement with a 6.4 LPA oﬀer from Learning Routes but chose not to join.Currently, I am working as an Assistant Manager – Analytics at Genpact.I am grateful for the support and guidance I received from Shri Vishwakarma Skill University during my college years. Thank you for being a cornerstone of my academic and professional growth. Ashwani Dhankhar MBA Business Analytics(2021–2023) Assistant Manager – Analytics Genpact Being a part of SVSU was more than just academics for me—it was a transformative journey that prepared me for the corporate world. The knowledge gained in the classroom laid a strong foundation, but it was the hands-on experience during my On-the-Job Training (OJT) that truly shaped my career. OJT gave me ﬁrst-hand exposure to real-world corporate dynamics, allowing me to apply theoretical concepts in a professional setting. It enhanced my communication, problem-solving, and teamwork skills while helping me understand the expectations of the corporate environment. One of the most valuable takeaways was my introduction to recruitment. Through OJT, I developed an understanding of talent acquisition, interview processes, and candidate assessment. This experience played a crucial role in helping me secure a job in the recruitment ﬁeld after graduation. Looking back, my college journey was not just about earning a degree but about gaining the skills, conﬁdence, and corporate exposure necessary to thrive in the professional world. Warm regards, Shashwat Tutoo Course: BPM & Data Analytics( 2018-21) Current Job Position:- Team Lead - Talent Acquisition, Tele performance. I'm proudly say I was student of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Palwal. SVSU is symbol of Modern education that provided me multiple opportunities to enhance my personal and professional growth. Now I'm working as a Robotic Instructor in very reputed company Kurious Learning labs Gurugram. In past 3 years I have conducted 100+ AI and Robotics workshop for students and teacher training program all across India. It's only possible due to SVSU that provided me excellence teaching staﬀs. Meharban Dabla B.Voc Robotics and Automation 2019-22 Robotics Instructor, Kurious Learning labs My time at SVSU has been truly transformative. I've learned so much, grown as a person, and made lifelong connections. The university's supportive environment, expert faculty, and diverse community have empowered me to pursue my passions and dreams. I'm grateful for the opportunities, challenges, and experiences that have shaped me into the person I am today. Thank you, SVSU, for helping me unlock my potential and paving the way for a bright future! Mohd Hanif Diploma in German Language Batch-5 Senior Adviser, Concentrix Yogesh B.Voc. Solar Technology (2019-22) Production Head (Sollean), Kirat Plastic Pvt Ltd My time at SVSU has been incredibly enriching academically. The faculty are knowledgeable and supportive, and the curriculum is well-rounded. I've had great opportunities for hands-on learning and networking, which have enhanced my educational & Career journey. Overall, SVSU has been a fantastic choice for my academic growth Alumni Success Stories 124

[PAGE 125]
University Discipline University Discipline The approved structure of Proctor Oﬃce is as 1. Proctor - Prof.(Dr.) Kulwant Singh 2. Deputy Proctor – Dr. Pinki 3. Assistant Proctor - SFASH - Dr Nakul 4. Assistant Proctor - SFMSR - Dr Yogesh Verma 5. Assistant Proctor - SFA- Dr Harish 6. Assistant Proctor - SFET - Dr Sajjan Wahi 7. Proctorial Board Member-SFET- Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh 8. Proctorial Board Member-SFET- Dr. Deepti Singh 9. Proctorial Board Member-SFASH- Dr. Ajay Kumar 10.Proctorial Board Member-SFASH- Dr Santosh Kumar 11.Proctorial Board Member-SFET- Mr. Sansh Bir Dagar 12.Proctorial Board Member-SFMSR- Mr Sandeep Malik 13.Proctorial Board Member-SFA- Mr. Hemant Kumar Tripathi 125

[PAGE 126]
University Discipline University Discipline Guidelines given below: Students are expected to abide by University's rules and regulations and maintain discipline. As adults, they should conduct themselves in a manner that is in consonance with civilized behavior and courtesy. Defaulters will be subject to disciplinary warning/action/expulsion from the University for a Term Basis or forever, depending upon the severity of the case. For major punishment, such as expulsion/rustication from the University, making an adverse entry on the Character Certiﬁcate to be issued by the University and debarring a student from admission to any program oﬀered by the University etc. the decision will be taken by the Dean or as per the recommendations of Students' Discipline Committee of the University. Students must possess their Identity Cards all the time and produce the same whenever asked. University's ordinance 'Enforcement of Students' Discipline, Good Behaviour, Residence & Health' should be followed for such cases of indiscipline. Without prejudice to the general meaning of indiscipline, the 'acts of indiscipline' inter alia include the following: 1. Misconduct or misbehavior in the classroom/OJT/Industry/center of excellence or anywhere on the University campus or outside the campus on visits authorized/deputed by the University or during tours/trips/surveys/internship (in company training) forming part of the curriculum; Causing damage or defacement to University/Industry property. 2. Instigating or causing to instigate, organizing/participating in strikes, demonstrations, or disturbances of any kind, including gherao or lock-outs which may disrupt the convocation, admissions, examinations, workshops, conferences, and other functions of the University/working of industry partner. 3. Disobedience or disregard of instructions or notiﬁcations issued by Chairpersons/Program Co- Ordinator/OJT Co-Ordinator members of faculty, and other oﬃcers of the University/Industry partner. 4. Instigating or causing to instigate, misguiding the employees/workers of the University to indulge in activities contrary to the interest and discipline of the University/Industry partner. 5. Persuading students to be absent from classes/OJT/examinations, disrupting the conduct of classes/OJT in any manner and other academic activities of the University/Industry. 6. To act or cause/instigate others to act in such a manner as to create disturbance or annoyance to other students/inmates of hostels/employees of University/Industry partner/residents of the campus community/any other person on the University campus/Industry or otherwise/or to act or cause/instigate others to take law into their own hands. 7. Keeping, carrying, using, or supplying of any arms, lethal weapons, knives with a blade of more than four inches length in the hostel from or outside or within the University/Industry. 8. Keeping, using, or supplying intoxicants/drugs in any form in the hostels, within the University campus/Industry partner premises. 9. Displaying notices, leaﬂets, or posters, not signed or countersigned by competent authority at the hostel notice board and of the University notice boards or other places or distributing such notices or leaﬂets or defacing University buildings/Industry or writing slogans and undesirable things on the buildings/property/Industry premises walls, etc. 10. Forging of signatures in any way of the faculty members/students at the time of registration/any other time, submitting fake certiﬁcates. 11. Eve-teasing, molestation, and physical assault, or threat to use physical force against any member of the teaching and non-teaching staﬀ of any Institution/Department (Branch Oﬃcer/ library) and against any student within the University/Industry. 12. To give shelter to outsiders/students in the hostel when the stay/visit of such student/outsider has been expressly barred by the orders passed by the University for a speciﬁc period or for a general period. 126

[PAGE 127]
University Discipline 13. To indulge in an act which may bring disrepute to the University/Industry in any manner. 14. Any practice- whether verbal or otherwise-derogatory to women. 15. Creating ill-will or intolerance on religious, caste, or communal grounds. 16. Any Illegal activity form on the campus/industry. Ragging, bullying or harassing of students in the classes/OJT/hostels within/outside the campus/industry. Ragging for the purpose of this Ordinance, ordinarily means any act, conduct, or practice by which dominant power or status of senior students is brought to bear on students freshly enrolled or students who are in any way considered junior or inferior by other students and includes individual or collective acts or practices which: a) Involve physical assault or threat to use physical force. b) Violate the status, dignity, and honour of women students and students belonging to scheduled castes and tribes. c) Expose students to ridicule and contempt and aﬀect their self-esteem d) Entail verbal abuse and aggression, indecent gestures, and obscene behaviour. e) Recourse to violence, assault, intimidation, or rioting within or outside the campus/industry. f) Disturbing other students in their studies. g) Attending or organizing unauthorized meetings and participating in such meetings. h) In the light of the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on 'Curbing Ragging in Educational Institutions', ragging in any form is totally banned by the University. If any ragging comes to the notice of the authority, the concerned student shall be subject to strict disciplinary action as per procedure. In this regard, students and their guardians are required to sign an aﬃdavit that the students will not be involved in ragging in any form directly or indirectly. The 'National Ragging Prevention Program' has simpliﬁed the procedure of ﬁling an aﬃdavit by each student admitted to SVSU. The aﬃdavit can be ﬁlled on-line and shall neither involve the visit of the students to any court of law or advocate nor incur any expense. Any other act which, in the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor or any other oﬃcer authorized by the Vice-Chancellor in this regard, is considered to be an act of indiscipline. The following procedure has to be followed: a) Log on to www.antiragging.in or www.amanmovement.org b) Click on 'Anti ragging Aﬃdavit'/'Online Aﬃdavit'. c) Read the instructions carefully and proceed by clicking on 'Next'. d) Fill in the information as asked for in the form(s). e) On successful completion, you will receive the aﬃdavit (both for the student and the parents) by e-mail. f) Print out the form(s) and sign them. g) Submit the signed print-out to the Dean/Head of the concerned department. IMPORTANT NOTE: It is mandatory to complete this process immediately after admission within a maximum time limit of 30 days as per the order of the Honorable Supreme Court and Govt. of India Notiﬁcation. (Sample is as per annexures B14 A and B14B). 127

[PAGE 128]
Attendance and Leave Rules Attendance and Leave Rules A. Student shall be required to attend a minimum of 75 % in each subject of the delivered lectures (in theory and practicals combined) and 90% of On-the-Job-Training (OJT). B. Attendance will be counted from the date of start of session to the date prior to the end of the semester. C. In case of late admission in the ﬁrst semester, attendance shall be counted from the date of actual admission of the candidate by the competent authority. D. Every student shall attend his/her classes/On-Job-Training (OJT) on all working days unless he/she is granted leave of absence by the Chairperson of the University Teaching Department/Principal of College/Institution concerned. If a student remains absent from his/her classes/OJT for a continuous period of ﬁfteen/seven working days respectively without any valid reason, medical or otherwise, his/her name shall be struck oﬀ from the rolls, irrespective of the fact that student has paid his/her dues. E. Any indiscipline reported by the Industry partner during OJT will lead to disciplinary action and/ or withdrawl from OJT. F. Such student, whose name is struck oﬀ from the rolls of the Department/College, shall pay the re- admission fees of Rs. 500/- for making necessary entries in the University Register, subject to the recommendation of the chairperson of concerned department and principal of the college/institution that if re-admitted, the student will not fall short of the requisite percentage of lectures. No further request for re-admission will be considered in any case. G. A student, whose name has been struck oﬀ from the roll of the Institution, may, however, be readmitted if the absence of the student was due to the circumstance beyond his/her control and his /her request was considered and approved by the Dean / competent authority. H. Any student who fails to appear for or pass any particular exam and further thereafter remains absent from the University for a period exceeding one year from the date or re- opening of the institute following the exam in which the student had failed to appear or pass shall not be entitled to continue his/her studies in the institute without prior written permission of the competent authority. I. The Program Coordinator/Head/Industry Partner may grant leave to the students in exceptional circumstances only to the extent of 10 days per semester subject to the condition that the student completes the prescribed minimum attendance as per attendance rules and leave was sanctioned before availing the same. 128

[PAGE 129]
Department of Student's Welfare Department of Student's Welfare In the dynamic landscape of skill higher education, the role of the Department of Student's Welfare (DSW) stands out as a pivotal force shaping the student experience. At Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Haryana, we recognize the immense signiﬁcance of this division, understanding that it serves as a bridge between students and the broader university vision. In this narrative, we delve into the multifaceted responsibilities and the proactive vision that deﬁnes the DSW, emphasizing its crucial role in fostering a thriving, inclusive, and engaging campus community. The DSW at our university is not merely a bureaucratic post; rather, it symbolizes a commitment to student well-being, growth, and success. One of the primary facets of the DSW's responsibility is to provide robust academic support, ensuring that students have access to resources and guidance necessary for their educational journey. This includes facilitating communication between students and faculty, oﬀering mentorship programs, and implementing initiatives that enhance the overall learning experience. Beyond academics, the DSW is a key player in nurturing the mental health and well-being of students. Recognizing the pressures and challenges that students may face, the DSW oversees counselling services aimed at creating a supportive environment. By destigmatizing mental health concerns, the DSW encourages students to seek help when needed, fostering a culture that prioritizes emotional well-being as an integral part of personal development. Extracurricular activities play a vital role in shaping a well-rounded individual, and the DSW plays a pivotal role in promoting and coordinating these activities. Whether it's cultural events, sports, or community service, the DSW ensures that students have ample opportunities to explore their interests, showcase their talents, and build a sense of community. These activities not only contribute to personal growth but also create a vibrant campus life that adds richness to the overall university experience. As we navigate the ever-evolving landscape of higher education, the DSW remains steadfast in its commitment to creating an inclusive, supportive, and empowering environment for all students. Prof. (Dr.) Kulwant Singh: Dean - Student's Welfare 129

[PAGE 130]
Celebration of 26th January 2025 Lohri Celebration 2025 Cricket tournament 2025 Annual NSS Camp 2025 130

[PAGE 131]
Blood donation Camp during NSS Camp Science Day 2025 Cultural Fest - Nepunya 131

[PAGE 132]
Cells, Clubs and Committees Cells, Clubs and Committees S. No. Cell/ Club Nature of Activities 1 Foreign Students Cell To facilitate international student during admissions and course of studies in the University. 2 Centre for Competitive Examinations To sensitize and motivate students to appear for various competitive examinations. To provide guidance, assistance, training and coaching for student aspirants. 3 Career Counselling and Placement Cell Enabling the students to develop skills as required in global job market and to facilitate them in getting placement. 4 Youth Welfare Committee-Student Attendance, Scholarship and others To Coordinate & bring together the youth from Diﬀerent institutions and provides them Opportunity to develop mutual understanding, Co - operation, brotherhood and patriotism as well as an outlet for their creative activities. To keep track of student’s attendance and to ascertain whether there is any correlation between their attendance and performance and if so to what degree. 5 Minority Cell To provide assistance to the minority students along with Scheduled Cast/Scheduled Tribe students through counselling, personality development, development of communication skill, remedial coaching, tutorial classes, and preparatory classes for professional and employment purposes, etc. 6 Youth Red Cross Committee Coordination of activities speciﬁed under Youth Red Cross (YRC) 7 SC/ST/OBC Cell To address the grievances of students belonging to SC/ST/OBC category and necessary initiative for the same. 8 Cell for Diﬀerently Abled To enable the students with disabilities to overcome the challenges and to provide them required support for their growth. 9 NSS Cell Coordination of activities speciﬁed under National Service Scheme (NSS) 10 NCC Cell Coordination of activities speciﬁed under National Service Scheme & National Cadet Corps (NCC) 132

[PAGE 133]
Cells, Clubs and Committees 11 Technical Club To coordinate, organize and promote activities related to technical skills. Following are the suggested activities: Hakathon, Industrial problems and Innovation, Tinker in real life, Software skills, Robo wars, Code-Decode, Automation, competitions, workshops, any other related activities 12 Sports Club To coordinate, organize and promote activities related to sports and wellness. Following are the suggested activities: Indoor games, outdoor sports, Yoga, Zumba, university trips, coaching, any other related activities 13 Literary Club To coordinate, organize and promote activities like debates, declamations, group discussions, poetry writing and recitation, short-story writing, quiz contests, interactive/lecture sessions, etc. that help students to develop in their literacy. 14 Cultural Club Planning and organizing the activities for promotion of cultural events and other related activities.Following are the suggested activities: Dance, Song, Modeling/Fashion show, teachers’ day, farewell, fresher’s party , cultural competitions, etc. 15 Student Voters Club To Motivate and promote all the students of SVSU to Vote. 16 Dadasaheb Phalke, Photography Club To coordinate, organize and promote activities theatre, photography, painting, sketching, skit, leadership, ethics 133

[PAGE 134]
Schemes and Scholarships Schemes and Scholarships Fees Waiver* Scholarship provisions for Students who participate in World Skill Competition 1. Medal in World Skill at international level 100% tuition fee waiver 2. Medal in World Skill at National level 50% tuition fee waiver. 3. Medal in World Skill at State level 25% tuition fee waiver. * Fees Waiver: Subject to the approval of the statutory body. Har-Chhatravratti “Har-Chhatravratti" is a centralized portal developed by the Department of Higher Education that provides one one-stop solution for end-to-end scholarship process right from submission of application, veriﬁcation and disbursal to end beneﬁciary. Keeping in viewthe State Government's commitment to make beneﬁciary-oriented schemes easilyaccessible, seamless and transparent, a centralized State Scholarship Portal has beendeveloped by bringing in 16 scholarship schemes of 7 major department of thegovernment under a single platform. Har-Chhartravati Scholarship Scheme S.No. Scheme Name 1 Post Matric Scholarship- SC Students 2 Post Matric Scholarship- BC, EWS and DNT Students 3 Consolidated Stipend Scheme for SC Students 4 Consolidated Stipend Scheme for Grand Children of Freedom Fighters 5 Free Books for SC Students 6 State Merit Scholarship to Under Graduate Girls Students 7 Haryana State Meritorious Incentives Scheme 8 Haryana State Meritorious Incentives Scheme (CBSE) 9 State Merit Scholarship to UG/PG Students 10 Lower Income Group Scheme 11 Merit-cum-Means Scholarship 12 Reimbursement of Tuition Fee to Schedule Castes 13 Reimbursement of Tuition Fee & Transport Facility to Schedule Castes 14 State SC Scheme (Govt ITI) 15 HSCST Fellowship Program 16 Promotion of Science Education (POSE) Scholarship Scheme “Har-Chhatravratti” Portal emerges as one of the most prominent scholarship portal that oﬀers three tier veriﬁcation of the application. Student Application form got veriﬁed from three levels i.e. Institute, University/Nodal Body and Head Oﬃce thus ensuring the complete authentication of the applicant. This portal is also integrated with state ﬂagship Program i.e. Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme of Haryana Government. In order to avail the beneﬁts of scholarship schemes of the state government, it is mandatory for each applicant to have Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP). Har-chhatrvratti portal would also include the students of Haryana domicile who are studying outside Haryana. Such application would directly be veriﬁed by the concerned department. 134

[PAGE 135]
Schemes and Scholarships National Scholarships Portal is one-stop solution through which various services starting from student application, application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal of various scholarships to Students are enabled. Objective of NSP • Ensure timely disbursement of Scholarships to students • Provide a common portal for various Scholarships schemes of Central and State Governments • Create a transparent database of scholars • Avoid duplication in processing Harmonisation of diﬀerent Scholarships schemes & norms APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarship Program: We are running APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarship scheme with the support of the industries to help the ﬁnancially weaker but academically brilliant minds. A candidate who has potential and fulﬁl the conditions may apply for this scholarship scheme and avail the beneﬁts. • APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarship Scheme sponsored by 'The Oswals' We have started this scholarship in collaboration with Mr. Mohit Oswal, MD & Founder Director - Roop Automotives Ltd. in calendar year 2022-23. We have felicitated a total of 25 candidates with a support with full semester academic year fee to date. • APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarship Program sponsored by 'Concentrix' We have launched this scholarship in collaboration with Concentrix India for the calendar year 2024-25. Where a total of 50 students would be granted a full year academic fee support for the entire course. • Knorr & Bremse sponsored scholarship for the ﬁnancially weaker and meritorious students of the SVSU been rewarded to 22 candidates with full semester academic year fee to date. Scholarship Through NSP 135

[PAGE 136]
Anti-Ragging Guidelines & Preventive Measures Govt. of India and State Govt. of Haryana have already banned the ragging of newly admitted students in all the Professional Institutions. The stern disciplinary action is taken against the students indulging in the ragging of the students, including expulsion from the University and hostels/mess or ﬁne with a public apology or withholding of scholarships or other beneﬁt, debarring from representation in events, withholding results, suspension of campus recruitment / industrial training and alike. If, the individuals committing or abetting ragging are not/cannot be identiﬁed, then collective punishment can be awarded to act as a deterrent. In view of the involvement of some senior students in ragging of 1st year students in some of the Institutions in the previous year, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has directed the concerned Institutions/Universities to take immediate steps for the prevention of ragging of students. The violation of this law (ban on ragging) is not only punishable by a ﬁne of Rs.50,000/- but also may attract rigorous imprisonment for 3 years. In order to curb the ragging, the University takes various steps such as help from the local administration for keeping vigilance in the Campus, senior students are advised individually and in groups and cooperation of their parents is sought explaining the aspects of punishment for violation of law of ban on ragging, by deputing faculty members at diﬀerent places in the University premises to check the ragging & to book the defaulters during the day and also at mid night. What constitutes ragging: a. any conduct by any student or students whether by words spoken or written or by an act which has the eﬀect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness a fresher or any other student; b. indulging in rowdy or indiscipline activities by any student or students which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harm or to raise fear or apprehension thereof in any fresher or any other student; c. asking any student to do any act which such student will not in the ordinary course do and which has the eﬀect of causing or generating a sense of shame, or torment or embarrassment so as to adversely aﬀect the physique or psyche of such fresher or any other student; d. any act by a senior student that prevents, disrupts or disturbs the regular academic activity of any other student or a fresher; e. exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the academic tasks assigned to an individual or a group of students; f. any act of ﬁnancial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher or any other student by students; g. any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm or any other danger to health or person; h. any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, post, public insults which would also include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious or sadistic thrill from actively or passively participating in the discomﬁture to fresher or any other student; i. any act that aﬀects the mental health and self-conﬁdence of a fresher or any other student with or without an intent to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing oﬀ power, authority or superiority by a student over any fresher or any other student. Anti-Ragging Guidelines & Preventive Measures 136

[PAGE 137]
Anti-Ragging Guidelines & Preventive Measures Deterrent Measures for Ragging: · Cancellation of admission. · Suspension from attending classes. · Withholding/ withdrawing of scholarship/Fellowship and other beneﬁts. · Debarring from appearing in any test examination or other evaluation process. · Debarring from representing the institution in any regional, national or international event. · Suspension/expulsion from the hostel. · Rustication for periods ranging from 1 to 4 Semesters. · Expulsion from the university and consequent debarring from admission to any other university/institution. · Collective punishment where warranted. · Lodging of FIR. · Display the names and punishment awarded to oﬀender of ragging on the notice boards. · Endorse the Migration/Transfer certiﬁcates with the remarks and punishment awarded to the person on account of ragging. · Imposition of Fine of Rs. 50,000/- Anti-Ragging Committee / Anti Ragging Squads: As per the UGC regulations notiﬁed vide. F 1-16/2009 (CPP-II) dated 21st October 2029, University has constituted Anti-Ragging Committee and Anti Ragging Squads is as follows: Anti-Ragging Squad (SFET) Anti-Ragging Squad (SFMSR) 1. Dean SFET– Convenor 2. Mr. Sunil Kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor 3. Ms. Ekta, Assistant Professor 4. Ms. Deepti Singh, Skill Assistant Professor 5. Mr. Nitin Mittal, Skill Assistant Professor 1. Dean SFMSR – Convenor 2. Dr. Samarth Singh, Skill Associate Professor-Chairman 3. Dr. Savita Sharma, Skill Associate Professor 4. Dr. Vikas Mishra, Skill Assistant Professor 5. Dr. Yogesh Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor Anti-Ragging Squad (SFASH) Anti-Ragging Squad (SFA) 1. Dean SFASH – Convenor 2. Dr. Nakul, Skill Assistant Professor 3. Dr. Kalpana Maheshwari, Skill Assistant Professor 4. Mr. Shiv Kumar, Skill Assistant Professor 5. Dr. Mohit Shrivastva, Skill Assistant Professor 1. Dean SFA– Convenor 2. Mr. Sajan Kumar, Assistant Professor 3. Dr. Harish Kumar, Skill Assistant Professor 4. Dr. Tejender, Skill Assistant Professor 5. Mr. Hemnat Tripathi, Skill Instructor 137

[PAGE 138]
Anti-Ragging Guidelines & Preventive Measures Students' Grievance Redressal Committee Sr. No. Name and Designation Remarks 1 Dean of Students’ Welfare (DSW) Chairperson 2 Proctor Member 3 Ms. Meenaskshi Koul, Senior Skill Instructor Member 4 Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Master Skill Instructor Member 5 Mr. Pushpender (23UGBEE02104), B. Tech. EE Member 6 Ms. Sneha Singh (22BTC35162), B. Tech. CSE AI/ML Member 7 Dean of the school concerned Member 8 Chief Warden Member 9 Dr. Nakul, Skill Assistant Professor Member-Secretary Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Committee 1. Prof. Usha Batra, Dean- CRE, SVSU (Coordinator) 2. Dr. Shruti Gupta, Skill Associate Professor, SVSU 3. Dr. Preeti, Skill Assistant Professor, SVSU 4. Mr. Rajesh Chauhan, PRO, SVSU 5. Mr. Keshav Sharma, Law Oﬃcer, SVSU 6. Mr. Sunder, Superintendent, SVSU 7. Ms. Kajal Chhibber, President, Saathi Foundation 8. In case of any student participation, three students' representative's undergraduate, postgraduate, scholar level) 138

[PAGE 139]
Abbreviations Abbreviations AIC All India Category AICTE All India Council for Technical Education BC Backward Category CBCS Choice Based Credits System DA Diﬀerential Ability DMC Detailed Marks Certiﬁcate HOGC Haryana Open General Category IIDEM Industry Integrated Dual Education Model NAPS National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme NEMMP National Electric Mobility Mission Plan NSQF National Skills Qualiﬁcation Framework OJT On The-Job-Training PwD Person with Disability SC Scheduled Caste STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics SVSU Shri Vishwakarma Skill University UGC University Grants Commission 139

[PAGE 140]
Annexures Annexures 140

[PAGE 141]
Annexure1 UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION Guidelines for Admission and Supernumerary seats of International Students in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Programmes in Higher Educational Institutions in India Introduction The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 envisages a new and forward-looking vision for India's higher education system. It sets the foundation for the much-needed transformation and overhaul of the curent education system through its focus on key issues like access, equity, multidisciplinarity, holistic and value-based education. The Indian higher education system is one of the world's largest systems and transformation of such a vast system requires transforming the system or processes for all Higher Education spheres including areas of leadership, funding, quality of education delivery, accoumtability, management, teaching- leaming & research, as well as intemationalization. Intemationalisation of higher education is an essential aspect ofthe National Education Policy 2020. The need to internationalise certain aspects of higher education, while making all higher education relevant internationally has been a major area of focus. Intermationalisation of higher education is the process of integrating an intermational and intercultural dimension in higher education. Opportunities to attract international students, academics and funding are growing and many Indian Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) are now committed to increase their international outreach. In order to facilitate the internationalisation of Indian HEIs, the University Grants Commission has framed the guidelines for admission and creation of supemumerary seats for international students. Objectives 1. To facilitate a smooth and simple admission of intemational students in higher educational institutions of India. 2.To create a favourable environment for attracting intermational students to Indian higher education system. To make India a preferred destination for international students. GUIDELINES 1. Indian HEIs may admit intemational students based on the equivalence of entry qualification held by them. The equivalence is to be determined by the University Grants Commission (UGC) or any other body recognised by UGC for such purpose or

[PAGE 142]
the concemed regulatory bodies of the country. HEIs may adopt a transparent admission process for admitting the international students. HEIs may create up to 25% supemumerary seats for intemational students, over and above of their total sanctioned enrolment for Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes. The decision regarding 25% supermumerary seats has to be carried out by the concerned higher educational institutions as per specific guidelines/regulations issued by the regulatory bodies considering the infrastructure, faculty and other requirements. The 25% of the supernumerary seats for intermational students will not include the international students under exchange programmes or/and through Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between institutions or between Govemment of India and other countries. Depending on the availability of infrastructure and qualified faculty, efforts should be made to distribute these 25% seats among all departments, schools, centres or any other academic umit of the higher educational institution, wherever possible. The supernumerary seats shall be exclusively meant for the intemational students both in the Undergraduate and Post-graduate programmes. A seat remained unfilled in the supemumerary category, shall not be allocated to anyone other than an international student. Intemational students in this context shall be defined as the one who shall possess a foreign passport. The provision of creating supernumerary seats for international students should be formalized by way of approval of statutory body/bodies of the HEIs in accordance with the guidelines/regulations issued by the regulatory bodies from time to time. The supermumerary seats in professional and technical institutes shall be govermed by the respective statutory bodies. Supernumerary seats for Ph.D. programmes shall be governed by the Regulations notified by the University Grants Commission from time to time in this regard. All HEIs shall have an 'Office for Intemational Students'. Year-wise details, i.e. country, number, programme/subject, duration etc., regarding the intemational students in the HEI be maintained by it and be made available on their website. 10 All details regarding number of seats available for intemational students in each programme, fee prescribed for the same, admission process, eligibility conditions etc. shall be made available on the website of the HEI. 11 All existing rules/provisions notified by Govemment of India regarding visa/ Foreign Regional Registration Offices (FRRO) etc. shall be followed by the HEIs.

[PAGE 143]
GUIDELINES FOR FEMALE CANDIDATES SEATS ANNEXURE A-1 · Female candidates have to apply separately against these seats as per the prescribed application form · Candidates whose parental income is less than 3.0 Lac per year shall only be considered. Income Statement need to be submitted. · Application fees for applying against these seats shall be Rs.50/- · The eligibility criterion and selection criterion shall be same as notiﬁed by the university for sanctioned intake. · Fee structure shall be same as that of University programs. GUIDELINES FOR INDUSTRY SPONSORED SEATS ANNEXURE A-2 · The female candidate shall be only apply against the seats for industry-sponsored category. · The sponsored industry has to undertake that candidate shall be sponsored for complete duration of the programs. · All the fees including hostel accommodation, if any, shall be borne by the sponsoring organization. · Candidate have to apply separately against these seats. · Eligibility and selection criterion shall be same as notiﬁed by the University for Sanctioned Intake and in case candidate fails in the selection process, he shall not be admitted in the program. · Industry sponsored candidate form mentioned below has to be ﬁlled. · Fee Structure for industry sponsored candidates may be as under: - Fee Structure for Vocational Program -2025-26 • One Time Fees for B.Voc./BBA/Diploma/D.Voc./M.Voc/ MSc/ PGD/ BHM/B.Com. : - 1. Security Fund:-1000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 500/- 3. Registration Fees: 360/- S. No . Program Duratio n of Course (Semest ers) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examinat ion Fee Student Activity Fund Developm ent Fund Misc. Fund *Total(P er semester ) 1 B.Voc. 6 14700 2500 800 1500 1200 20700 2 B.B. A./ B.Com 6/8 21000 2500 800 1500 1200 27000 3 BHM 8 36450 2500 800 1500 1200 42450 4 Diploma 2 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 5 D.Voc./Diplo ma 6 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 6 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850 7 PG Diploma 2 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850 * Assessment and Certiﬁcation Fee: Rs 1200 will be paid by the students per job role in a Semester as applicable. 143

[PAGE 144]
Student Application Format under Industry Sponsored Quota To, Dean, Skill Faculty of …………………….. Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, . Subject: Application for the supernumerary seats to be ﬁlled to ………………………… program under industry sponsored quota Dear Sir/Madam, With reference to above cited subject, I am willing to take admission in ……………………………………… program run by Skill Faculty ………………………… under industry sponsored quota. My details are as follows: - 1 Name of the Candidate 2 Address of the Candidate 3 Email 4 Mobile number 5 Qualifying Examination details 6 Details of the Sponsoring Industry with address & phone number Please consider my application and inform me for further stage of selection so as to prepare for admissions. Yours truly (Signature of the applicant) Enclosure: i) Sponsorship letter from Industry ii) Photocopy of the Mark-Sheet of Qualifying examination. 144

[PAGE 145]
Sponsorship Letter from Industry (On letter head of Industry) To, Dean, Skill Faculty of …………………….. Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Subject: Sponsorship letter against the seats of Industry sponsored Quota. Dear Sir/Madam, We are sponsoring the following candidate to be admitted to …………………...program run by University against the Industry Sponsorship Quota. Name of the candidate: …………………………………………………………………… ............................... Address of the candidate: …………………………………………………………………................................ Email: …………………………….......................... Mobile Number: …... ........................................... This is further informed that we have a MOU with Shri Vishwakarma Skill University for Skill Based Trainings to the students and requisite fees shall be borne by our organisation for complete duration of the programs. The registration copy of our industry is attached herewith. So, you are requested to admit the aforementioned candidate to the respective program in your Skill Faculty. Thanking you, This is further informed that we have a MOU with Shri Vishwakarma Skill University for Skill Based Trainings to the students and requisite fees shall be borne by our organisation for complete duration of the programs. The registration copy of our industry is attached herewith. So, you are requested to admit the aforementioned candidate to the respective program in your Skill Faculty. Thanking you, Yours truly, Managing Director Sign and Seal Name: ……………. 145

[PAGE 146]
LIST OF DEPRIVED SCHEDULED CASTES IN HARYANA STATE ANNEXURE B-1 1. Ad Dharmi 2. Balmiki 3. Bangali 4. Barar, Burar, Berar 5. Batwal, Barwala 6. Bauria, Bawaria 7. Bazigar 8. Bhanjra 9. Chanal 10. Dagi 11. Darain 12. Deha, Dhaya, Dhea 13. Dhanak 14. Dhogri, Dhangri, Siggi 15. Dumna, Mahasha, Doom 16. Gagra 17. Gandhila, Gandil, Gondola 18. Kabirpanthi, Julaha 19. Khatik 20. Kori, Koli 21. Marija, Marecha 22. Mazhabi, Mazhabi Sikh 23. Megh, Meghwal 24. Nat, Badi 25. Od 26. Pasi 27. Perna 28. Pherera 29. Sanhai 30. Sanhal 31. Sansi, Bhedkut, Manesh 32. Sansoi 33. Sapela, Sapera 34. Sarera 35. Sikligar, Bariya 36. Sirkiband Note: The list of Scheduled Castes in the State of Haryana, if further revised/amended and issued by the Government of Haryana from time to time will be followed. 146

[PAGE 147]
ANNEXURE B-2 DEPRIVED SCHEDULED CASTE CERTIFICATE This is to certify that Mr./Ms.……………………...Son/daughter of Shri……….. resident of………………………village/ town…………. Tehsil…………District………… of Haryana State belongs to …………………… Caste, which is recognized as a Scheduled Caste under the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) order 1950 and this case has been declared as Deprived Scheduled Caste by the Government of Haryana vide Gazette Notiﬁcation No. Leg. /15/2020 dated 15.05.2020. This certiﬁcate is being issued to him/her on the basis of veriﬁcation of Naib Tehsildar/Tehsildar. Signature of the issuing authority Place ___________________ Full Name……………….. Designation……………… (with legible seal) Date: ___________________ Issuing Authority: Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrate, Naib Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrat 147

[PAGE 148]
LIST OF BACKWARD CLASSES IN HARYANA STATE ANNEXURE B-2 BLOCK – A Sr. No. Name of the Caste Sr. No. Name of the Caste Sr. No. Name of the Caste 1. Aheria, Aheri, Heri, Naik, Thori or Turi, Hari 2. Barra 3. Beta, Hensi or Hesi 4. Bagria 5. Barwar 6. Barai, Tamboli 7. Baragi, Bairagi, Swami Sadh 8. Battera 9 Bharbhuja, Bharbhunja 10. Bhat, Bhatra, Darpi, Ramiya 11 Bhuhalia, Lohar 12. Changar 13. Chirimar 14. Chang 15. Chimba, Chhipi, Chimpa, Darzi, Rohilla 16. Daiya 17. Dhobis 18. Dakaut 19. Dhimar, Mallah, Kashyap- Rajpoot, Kahar, Jhiwar, Dhinwar, Khewat, Mehra, Nishad, Sakka, Bhisti, Sheikh-Abbasi 20. Dhosali, Dosali 21. Faquir 22. Gwaria, Gauria or Gawar 23. Ghirath 24. Ghasi, Ghasiara or Ghosi 25. Gorkhas 26. Gawala, Gowala 27. Gadaria, Pal, Baghel 28. Garhi, Lohar 29. Hajjam, Nai, Nais, Sain 30. Jhangra - Brahman, Khati, Suthar, Dhiman-Brahmin, Tarkhan, Barhai, Baddi 31. Joginath, Jogi, Nath, Yogi 32. Kanjar or Kanchan 33. Kurmi 34. Kumhars, Prajapati 35. Kamboj 36. Khanghera 37. Kuchband 38. Labana 39. Lakhera, Manehar, Kachera 40. Lohar, Panchal-Brahmin 41. Madari 42. Mochi 43. Mirasi 44. Nar 45. Noongar 46. Nalband 47. Pinja, Penja 48. Rehar, Rehara or Re 49. Raigar 50. Rai Sikhs 51. Rechband 52. Shorgir, Shergir 53. Soi 54. Singhikant, Singiwala 55. Sunar, Zargar, Soni 56. Thathera, Tamera 57. Teli 58. Banzara, Banjara 59. Weaver (Jullaha) 60. Badi/Baddon 61. Bhattu/ Chattu 62. Mina 63. Rahbari 64. Charan 65. Charaj (Mahabrahman) 66. Udasin 67. Ramgarhia 68. Rangrez, Lilgar, Nilgar, Lallari 69. Dawala, Soni- Dawala, Nyearia 70. Bhar, Rajbhar 71. Nat(Muslim) 72. Jangam 148

[PAGE 149]
BLOCK – B At present, Raigar and Mochi, Weaver (Jullaha) (BC) and Julaha (SC) and Badi Castes ﬁnd a mention in the lists of both Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes. Persons belonging to these Castes who are not covered under Scheduled Caste Being Non-Hindu and Non-Sikhs can take the beneﬁt under the Backward Classes only. Sr. No. Name of the Caste Sr. No. Name of the Caste Sr. No. Name of the Caste 1. Ahir/ Yadav 2. Gujjar 3. Lodh/ Lodha/ Lodhi 4. Saini, Shakya, Koeri, Kushwaha 5. Meo 6. Gosai/ Gosain/ Goswami Note: The list of Backward Classes in the State of Haryana (Block-A & Block-B), if further revised/amended and issued by the Government of Haryana from time to time will be followed. 149

[PAGE 150]
ANNEXURE B-3 Instructions regarding Bonaﬁde Residents of Haryana issued vide letter No. 62/17/95-6 GSI Dated 3rd October,1996, No. 62/32/2000-6GSI dated 23rd May, 2003 and No. 62/27/2003- 6GSI dated 29th July, 2003 by the Chief Secretary to Government Haryana. Subject: Bonaﬁde residents of Haryana-Guidelines regarding I am directed to invite your attention to Haryana Govt. letters noted in the margin on the subject noted above vide which the instructions were issued regarding simpliﬁcation of procedure for obtaining the certiﬁcate of domicile for the purpose of admission to educational institution (including technical/medical institution). The matter has been reconsidered in the light of judgment delivered by the Hon'ble supreme court of India in the case of Dr. Pradeep Jain vs Union of India and other reported as AIR 1984-SC-1421, wherein it has been held that instead of the word Domicile the word Resident be used in the instruction issued by the State Government and it has been decided to revise the Government instructions. Henceforth, the following categories of persons would be eligible for the grant of Resident Certiﬁcate: I. Candidates, who have passed the examination qualifying there for selection in an institution from a school/college in Haryana. II. Children/Wards (if parents are not living)/Dependents of the: A. Employees of Haryana State posted in or outside Haryana State or working on deputation. B. Employees of the statutory bodies/corporations established by or under an act of the State of Haryana who are posted in Chandigarh or in Haryana or outside Haryana. C. Employees of the Government of India posted in Chandigarh or in Haryana in connection with the aﬀairs of the Haryana Government. III. Children/wards (if parents not living)/dependents of persons who after retirement have permanently settled in Haryana and draw their pensions from the treasuries situated in the State of Haryana. IV. Children/wards (if parents are not living)/dependents of pensioners of Haryana Government irrespective of the fact that the original home of the retiree is in a state other than Haryana or he has settled after retirement in or outside Haryana; V. Children/wards (if parents are not living)/dependents of persons, who have permanent home in Haryana and include persons who have been residing in Haryana for a period of not less than 15 years or who have permanent home in Haryana but on account of their occupation they are living outside Haryana; VI. The wives of such persons who are bonaﬁde residents of Haryana irrespective of the fact that they had belonged to any other state before marriage; VII. Persons who were born in Haryana and produce a certiﬁcate to that eﬀect; provided that the parents/guardians (if parents are not living) of persons belonging to any one of the above- mentioned categories are: 150

[PAGE 151]
A. Citizen of India; B. Produce an afﬁdavit to the eﬀect that they or their children/wards (if parents are not living)/dependents have not obtained the beneﬁt of Resident in any other State. VIII. Children & Wards of the accredited journalists residing at Chandigarh and recognized by Govt. of Haryana. 1. All candidates claiming to be bonaﬁde residents of Haryana should produce a Haryana Resident Certiﬁcate signed by the District Magistrate/General Assistant to Deputy Commissioner or Sub-Divisional Ofﬁcer (Civil) of the District/Sub-Divisions to which the candidates belong. Resident Certiﬁcates in respect of elsewhere or in respect of the Children/Wards/Dependents of Haryana Govt. employees who are posted at Chandigarh, Delhi, or elsewhere or in respect of Children/Wards/ Dependents of pensioners of Haryana Govt. or in respect of the Children/Wards/Dependents of the employees of the Government of India posted at Chandigarh or in Haryana in connection with the aﬀairs of Haryana Government, or in respect of Children/Wards/Dependents of the employees and retirees of the Statutory Bodies/Corporations of Haryana established by or under an Act of the State of Haryana or a Central Act and located at Chandigarh, Haryana, or outside Haryana, should be by their respective Heads of Departments. 2. Candidates, seeking admission in educational institutions (including medical and technical institutions) located in Haryana, may not be required to produce Resident Certiﬁcate if they have passed the examinations from a school/college situated in Haryana. For this purpose, a certiﬁcate of the Principal/Headmaster from the concerned institution, where the children/wards studied last should be considered sufﬁcient. The Principal/Headmaster of the institution shall be competent to issue such certiﬁcate, which should be sufﬁcient. 3. If a candidate is admitted on the basis of claim that she/he belongs to the State of Haryana but at any subsequent time is discovered that her/his claim was false, the student shall be removed from the institution and all fees and other dues paid up to the date of such removal shall be conﬁscated. The Principal/Headmaster may take any other action against the student and his/her parents/guardians as he may deem proper in the circumstances of any particular case. 151

[PAGE 152]
ANNEXURE B-4 HARYANA RESIDENT CERTIFICATE (for bonaﬁde residents of Haryana only) Certiﬁed that Mr.……………………………… son/daughter of Shri……………………………… resident of House No ………………… Lane/Street ……………. of Village/Town …………………… Tehsil ………………………… Dist ………………………… of Haryana since …………… and applicant for admission to various courses in Haryana, is a bonaﬁde resident of Haryana State in terms of Chief Secretary, Haryana letter No. 62/17/95-6 GS 1 dated 03.10.1996 and letter No. 62/27/2003/6 GS 1 dated 29.07.2003 under clause. No……………. Signature of the issuing authority Date……………………… Name………………………………….. Place…………………….. Designation…………………………. (With legible ofﬁce seal) Note: i) For authorities competent to sign this certiﬁcate. ii) Candidates, who have passed their qualifying examination from the Board of Haryana, are not required to produce Certiﬁcate of Haryana Resident. The certiﬁcate must have been issued on or after April, 2024 152

[PAGE 153]
ANNEXURE B-5 CERTIFICATE FOR EX-EMPLOYEES OF INDIAN DEFENCE SERVICES/PARA-MILITARY FORCES C e r t i ﬁ e d t h a t Number___________________________________________________________ Rank____________________________Name____________________________S/O or D/O Father/Mother of ____________________________________ Resident of Village ___________________________Post Ofﬁce _____________ Tehsil _________________ Dist. _________________ belonging to the State of Haryana, as per his/her service record at the time of entry into service, had served in the Army /Air Force/ Navy /____________________________ (Name of the Para-Military Force) from _________________ to ____________ and subsequently discharged/retired from the service on _________________ as per his/her service record. At the time of entry into service, the home address given is __________________________________ (Dist. ________________) Haryana. No. Signature Ofﬁcer Commanding/Zila Sainik Board Competent Authority (With Ofﬁcial Seal) Place………………… Date…………………. 153

[PAGE 154]
ANNEXURE B-6 SCHEDULED CASTE CERTIFICATE Certiﬁed that Mr./Ms.……………………………… Son/Daughter of Shri……………………………. Resident of………………………. Village/Town……………………….. Tehsil……………………. District……................. of Haryana belongs to…………………… Caste, which is recognized as a Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe under the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) order, 1950. Signature of the Issuing Authority Place…………………… Full Name………………………...... Date……………………. Designation……………………...... (With legible seal) Issuing Authority: Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrate/Naib Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrate 154

[PAGE 155]
LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES IN HARYANA STATE 1. Ad Dharmi 1A. Aheria, Aheri, Hari, Heri, Thori, Turi 2. Balmiki 3. Bangali 4. Barar, Burar, Berar 5. Batwal, Barwala 6. Bauria, Bawaria 7. Bazigar 8. Bhanjra 9. Chamar, Jatia Chamar, Rehgar, Ra igar, Ramdasi, Ravidasi, Balahi, Batoi, Bhambi, Chamar-Rohidas, Jatav, Jatava, Ramdasia 10. Chanal 11. Dagi 12. Darain 13. Deha, Dhaya, Dhea 14. Dhanak 15. Dhogri, Dhangri, Siggi 16. Dumna, Mahasha, Doom 17. Gagra 18. Gandhila, Gandil, Gondola 19. Kabirpanthi, Julaha 20. Khatik 21. Kori, Koli 22. Marija, Marecha 23. Mazhabi, Mazhabi Sikh 24. Megh, Meghwal 25. Nat, Badi 26. Od. 27. Pasi 28. Perna 29. Pherera 29 A. Rai Sikh 30. Sanhai 31. Sanhal 32. Sansi, Bhedkut, Manesh 33. Sansoi 34. Sapela, Sapera 35. Sarera 36. Sikligar, Bariya 37. Sirkiband 155

[PAGE 156]
ANNEXURE B-7 BACKWARD CLASS CERTIFICATE BLOCK 'A' OR 'B’ Certiﬁed that Mr./Ms…………………………… Son/Daughter of Shri…………………………… r e s i d e n t o f … … … … … … … … … … . … … V i l l a g e / To w n … … … … . … … … … … . … Tehsil………….…………… District………………… of Haryana belongs to…………………… Caste which has been notiﬁed as Backward Class by the Haryana Government and is placed in Block (mention Block-A or B). Further, certiﬁed that he/she is not covered in Creamy Layer (Reference from the Chief Secretary, Haryana letter No. 1170- SWL1-95 dated 07.06.1995 & No. 52/17/95-6GSI dated 03.10.1996 and No. 22/36/20003GSIII dated 09.08.2000& No. 213-SW(1)-2010 dated 31.08.2010, Haryana Govt. Instructions No. 59 SW(1)-2013 dated 24.01.2013 and 808-SW(1) dated 17.08.2016). Signature of the Issuing Authority Place…………………… Full Name………………………...... Date……………………. Designation……………………...... (With legible seal) Note: The applicant shall submit an afﬁdavit that he/she falls/does not fall in creamy layer. Issuing Authority: Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrate/Naib Tehsildar-cum-Executive Magistrate 156

[PAGE 157]
ANNEXURE B-8 AFFIDAVIT/UNDERTAKING (By the Parents of the Backward Class Category Candidates) I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ F a t h e r / M o t h e r o f _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ resident of Tehsil District seeking admission to course in Shri Vishwakarma Skill University do hereby solemnly afﬁrm & declare that I belong to Caste, which is included in the list of Backward Classes Block 'A'/'B' approved by Haryana Govt. I further declare and afﬁrm that I and my wife/husband are not covered under the criteria ﬁxed by Haryana Govt. Letter No. 1170-SW (1)-95 dated 07.06.95 & No. 22/36/2000-3GS-III dated 09.08.2000, No. 22/22/2004-3GS III dated 22.01.2009, No. 213-SW (1)-2010 dated 31.08.2010, Haryana Govt. instructions No. 59SW(1)-2013 dated 24.01.2013 and 808- SW(1) dated 17.08.2016 and Vide Notiﬁcation No. 1282-SW(1) dated 28th August, 2018, for excluding socially advanced persons/sections (Creamy Layer) from the Backward Classes Category. I undertake that our Gross Annual Income is Rs……………………. (in words) ………………………………… I further undertake that in case the information contained in the above para is found false at any stage, the Competent Authority will be entitled to cancel the admission of my ward.. Deponent Place…………………… Full Name………………………...... Date……………………. Veriﬁed that the above statement is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed therein. Deponent Place…………………… Full Name………………………...... Date……………………. The Afﬁdavit should be of the month of April, 2025 or later. 157

[PAGE 158]
ANNEXURE B-9 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE FOR DIFFERENTLY-ABLED PERSON OFFICE OF THE CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER____________ No. ___________________ Date _____________ Certiﬁed that Sh./Km./Smt./Son/Daughter/Wife of Sh. ________________________ resident of ______________ District ________ appeared before the Medical Board for medical check-up. On his/her Medical Examination, it is found that the nature of handicap/disability is_________% and (as applicable), is as under: 1. Blind or Low vision___________________________________________________ 2. Hearing impairment_________________________________________________ 3. Locomotor disability/cerebral palsy______________________________________ Thus, the candidate is physically handicapped as per standard norms of Haryana Government. (Signature of the Applicant) Chief Medical Ofﬁcer (Seal of the above authority) Date Place The disability should not be less than 40% and should not interfere with the requirement of professional career such as Engineering/Architecture/Technician, etc. 158

[PAGE 159]
ANNEXURE B-10 CERTIFICATE TO BE FURNISHED BY CHILDREN/ GRAND CHILDREN OF FREEDOM FIGHTERS OF HARYANA Certiﬁed that Mr./Ms._________________________________________________________________ Son / Daughter of Sh.________________________________________________________________ resident of (complete address) ________________________________________________________ Freedom Fighter of Haryana (Identity No. ) is father/grandfather of Mr./Ms.___________________________________________________________(Name of candidate) of Village/Town___________________________________Police Station______________________ Tehsil___________________ District _______________________ State______________________ No............................................... Deputy Commissioner of Concerned District of Haryana (Seal of the above authority) Date Place 159

[PAGE 160]
ANNEXURE B-11 (On Letter Head) Name of the Department/College________________________ Session_______________ CHARACTER CERTIFICATE Certiﬁed that Mr./Miss/Mrs._________________________________________________________ Son /daughter of Shri _____________________________________________________________ has been a bonaﬁde student of this School/ Department/College during the p e r i o d____________ He / She appeared / passed in the_________________examination of the (University/Board) held in ________under Roll No. ________________ and *passed obtaining _________marks out of marks or *failed/ *placed under compartment in the subject of. 1. Academic Distinction, if any 2. Co-curricular activities, if any 3. Brief particulars of disciplinary action by School/College/ Department /University (including punishments such as expulsion, warning, ﬁned for violation of College / Department / Hostel Rules, UMC / disqualiﬁcation etc. , If any 4. General Conduct during stay in the Institution: Good/Satisfactory/ Unsatisfactory 5. He/she bears good/bad character. No............................................... Signature Principal/Chairperson of the Department (With oﬃce seal) Date Place *Strike out whichever is not applicable. 160

[PAGE 161]
ANNEXURE B-12A Government of ……………………………….. (Name & Address of the authority issuing the Certiﬁcate) (ECONOMICALLY WEAKER SECTIONS) Haryana INCOME AND ASSET CERTIFICATE Certiﬁcate No………………. Date……………………. VALID FOR THE YEAR_____________ This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari……………………………………son/daughter/wife of…………………………………………..........……………………….is permanent resident of……………………………………….., V i l l a g e / S t r e e t……………………. Post ofﬁce…………………, District……………………, Pin Code…………………whose photograph is afﬁxed and attested below belongs to Economically Weaker Sections, since the gross annual income* of his/her family** is below Rs.6 lakh (Rupees Six Lakh only) for the ﬁnancial year…………………. It is further certiﬁed that His/Her family does not own or possess any of the following assets*** I. 5 acres of agricultural land and above; II. Residential ﬂat of 1000 sq. ft. and above; III. Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notiﬁed municipalities; IV. Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the notiﬁed municipalities. V. Total immovable assets owned and valued at Rs. One Crore or more. 1. Shri/Smt./Kumari……………………………belong to the caste which is not recognized as a Scheduled Caste,Backward Classes (Block-A) and Backward Classes (Block-B). Recent Passport sized attested photograph of No............................................... Signature with seal of oﬃce Date Name: Place Designation: Note: The Income and Asset Certiﬁcate is to be issued by the competent authority. The competent authority for EWS Income and Asset Certiﬁcate shall be Tehsildar of the area where the applicant normally resides. *Note 1: Income means income from all sources, i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession, etc. Note 2: The term ‘Family’ for this purpose will include the person who applies for beneﬁt of reservation, his/her parents, spouse as well as children and siblings below the age of 18 years. Note 3: The property held by ‘Family’ in diﬀerent locations or diﬀerent places/cities are to be clubbed while applying the land or property holding the test to determine EWS status. Note 4: The EWS certiﬁcate must be issued after 31-03-2025. 161

[PAGE 162]
ANNEXURE B-12B Government of …………………………………. (Name & Address of the authority issuing the certiﬁcate) INCOME & ASSET CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY ECONOMICALLY WEAKER(AIC) SECTIONS Certiﬁcate No. Date: VALID FOR THE YEAR 1. This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari son/daughter/wife of permanent resident of , Village/Street Post Oﬃce District in the State/Union Territory Pin Code__________whose photograph in attested below belongs to Economically Weaker Sections, since the gross annual income* of his/her “family”** is below Rs. 8 lakh (Rupees Eight Lakh only) for the ﬁnancial year …….His/her family does not own or possess any of the following assets***: I. 5 acres of agricultural land and above; II. Residential ﬂat of 1000 sq. ft. and above; III. Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notiﬁed municipalities; IV. Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the notiﬁed municipalities. 2. Shri/Smt./Kumari belongs to the caste which is not recognized as a Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe and Other Backward Classes (Central List). Signature with seal of Oﬃcer Name Designation The income and assets of the families as mentioned would be required to be certiﬁed by an oﬃcer not below the rank of Tehsildar in the States/UTs. * Note1: Income covered all sources i.e. salary, agricultural, business, profession, etc. ** Note2: The term “Family” for this purpose include the person, who seeks beneﬁt of reservation, his/her parents are siblings below the age of 18 years as also his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 years. *** Note3: The property held by a “Family” in diﬀerent locations or diﬀerent places/cities have been clubbed while applying the land or property holding test to determine EWS status. Recent Passport size attested photograph of the applicant 162

[PAGE 163]
ANNEXURE B-13 STUDY GAP AFFIDAVIT I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _S / D of _______R/o ______Do hereby solemnly and state as under: 1. That my name and address is correct. 2. That I have passed (Qualifying Examination) from Institution Name) in the year with %. 3. That there is gap of year/s between passing of (Qualifying Examination) and now seeking admission in the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Haryana. 4. That during this gap period I was doing _____________________________________________. 5. That during this gap period, I was neither studying anywhere nor passed any other examination. 6. That I was not involved in any criminal oﬀence whatsoever and I was not punished for any oﬀence by any Court of law during that gap period. DEPONENT VERIFICATION That the above statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed. DEPONENT 163

[PAGE 164]
ANNEXURE B-14A SELF DECLARATION BY PARENT/GUARDIAN (No afﬁdavit required) 1. I, Mr./Mrs./Ms ._______________________________________________________________ (full name of parent/guardian) father/mother/guardian of (full name of student with University Roll Number),having been admitted to Shri Vishwakarma Skill University have carefully read ‘THE HARYANA PROHIBITION OF RAGGING IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUITION ORDINANCE, 2012’ and fully understood the provisions contained in the said Ordinance. 2. I have, in particular, perused clause 2(f) of the Ordinance and am aware as to what constitutes ragging. 3. I have also, in particular, perused clause 8 of the Ordinance and I am fully aware of the penal and administrative action that is liable to be taken against my ward in case he/she is found guilty of or abetting ragging, actively or passively, or being part of a conspiracy to promote ragging. 4. I hereby solemnly aver and undertake that: a) My ward will not indulge in any behaviour or act that may be constituted as ragging under the Ordinance. b) My ward will not participate in or abet or propagate through any act of commission or omission that may be constituted as ragging under the Ordinance. 5. I hereby afûrm that, if found guilty of ragging, my ward is liable for punishment according to Ordinance without prejudice to any other criminal action that may be taken against my ward under any penal law or any law in force for the time being. 6. I hereby declare that my ward has not been expelled or debarred from admission in any institution in the country on account of being found guilty of, abetting or being part of a conspiracy to promote, ragging; and further afûrm that, in case the declaration is found to be untrue, the admission of my ward is liable to be cancelled. Declared this__________day of ________month of 202_______. Signature of the Parent/Guardian Name: _________________________________ Address: ______________________________ Telephone / Mobile No. _______________ Email ID ______________________________ 164

[PAGE 165]
ANNEXURE B-14B SELF DECLARATION BY THE STUDENT (No afﬁdavit required) 1. I, (full name of student)__________________S/o, D/o __________________have been admitted to Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, have care fully read ‘ THE HARYANA PROHIBITION OF RAGGING IN EDUCATIONALINSTITUITION ORDINANCE, 2012’ and fully understood the provisions contained in the said Ordinance. 2. I have, in particular, perused clause 2(f) of the Ordinance and am aware as to what constitutes ragging. 3. I have also, in particular, perused clause 8 of the Ordinance and I am fully aware of the penal and administrative action that is liable to be taken against me in case I am found guilty of or abetting ragging, actively or passively, or being part of a conspiracy to promote ragging. 4. I hereby solemnly aver and undertake that: (a) I will not indulge in any behaviour or act that may be constituted as ragging under the Ordinance. (b) I will not participate in or abet or propagate through any act of commission or omission that may be constituted as ragging under the Ordinance. 5. I hereby afûrm that, if found guilty of ragging, I am liable for punishment according to Ordinance, without prejudice to any other criminal action that may be taken against me under any penal law or any law in force for the time being. 6. I hereby declare that I have not been expelled or debarred from admission in any institution in the country on account of being found guilty of, abetting or being part of a conspiracy to promote, ragging; and further afûrm that, in case the declaration is found to be untrue, I am aware that my admission is liable to be cancelled. Declared this ___day of _______month of 202______. Signature of the Student Name: _________________________________ 165

[PAGE 166]
ANNEXURE B-15 CERTIFICATE OF MEDICAL FITNESS (TO BE DEPOSITED AT THE TIME OF ADMISSION) To be obtained from any Govt./Registered Medical Practitioner having MBBS Degree. Please note that in no other form will this certiﬁcate be accepted. (Please refer to prescribed standards given overleaf.) Name __________________________________________________ (In Block Letters) Father’s Name: Shri ________________________________________________ Height: __________________________________________________ Weight __________________________________________________ Chest: __________________________________________________ Heart and Lungs: __________________________________________________ Vision: L: __________________________________________________ R: __________________________________________________ Colour Vision: __________________________________________________ Hearing: __________________________________________________ Hernia/ Hydrocele/ Piles: ___________________________________________ Remarks: __________________________________________________ I certify that I have carefully examined Mr./Ms._________________________________________ Son/ daughter of Shri _________________________________who has signed in my presence. He/She has no mental and physical disease and is FIT. Signature of the Candidate Signature of Govt./Registered Medical Practitioner having MBBS Degree with legible seal Station: _______________ __________________________________________________ Date:_____________ 166

[PAGE 167]
Glimpses of University Glimpses of University 167

[PAGE 168]
Glimpses of University Glimpses of University 168

[PAGE 169]
Glimpses of University Glimpses of University 169

[PAGE 170]
Glimpses of University Glimpses of University 170

[PAGE 171]
Our Esteemed Partners Our Esteemed Partners 171

[PAGE 172]
Our Esteemed Partners Our Esteemed Partners Our Esteemed Partners 172 Disclaimer: Utmost care has been taken in the printing of the information in the prospectus, but in case if there will be any discrepancy, the University will have right to correct it.

[PAGE 173]
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY Campus : Village Dudhola, Distt. Palwal, (Haryana) 121102 122003 Transit Oﬃce : Plot No. 147, Sector 44, Gurugram (Haryana) Contact : +91- 9306095464 / 9253364547 / 9253224547 / 9253394547 Website : www.svsu.ac.in | Email ID : admissions@svsu.ac.in, info@svsu.ac.in


--- DOCUMENT: examination ordinance SVSU sign.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
SHRIVISHWAKARMASKILLUNIVERSITY SVSU SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY DUDHOLA (PALWAL) HARYANA (Haryana State Government University) (Established by Haryana Legislature Act No. 26 of 2016 and recognized under 12(B) of the UGC Act, 1956) www.sysu.ac.in Assistant Reistu (Examination)

[PAGE 2]
Reference Table INDEX Chapter Particulars Page No. No. Index Statute 3-8 Enrolment, Schedule of Examinations and Admit Cards 9-10 Appointment of Staff 11-13 Instructions for Superintendent-in-Chief for the conduct of 14-15 examinations Duties and Responsibilities of personals appointed for 16-21 conduct of examinations Norms to be followed for smooth conduct of examinations 22-29 Punishment Rules for those who uses Unfair Means during 30-34 Examinations Evaluation of Answer Sheets 35 Re-evaluation Rules 36-38 10 General Rules for Examinations 39-42 11 Grading System and Evaluation of Performance 43-50 12 Rules to award Gold Medal 51-52 13 Redressal of students Grievances regarding Question Papers, 53-54 Grace Marks and Provision of Amanuensis Guidelines for Inspection and Supply of Photocopy of 55-56 Evaluated Answer Sheets 15 Guidelines for Improvement Examinations 57 Appendix-1 58-59 Appendix-2 60-65 Assistant Regatra(Bgmination)

[PAGE 3]
Chapter-1 Statues 1.1 Students' Examination fee and Development, Sports, Youth Welfare fund An affiliating College/ Institute shall pay students’ examination fee development, sports, and youth welfare funds to the umiversity as prescribed under root from time to time 1.2 Examination Centre Creation of an examination centre in the college shall be at the discretion of the Controller of Examination ofthe university the centre of examination for the students studying in the college can be shifled to any other college. In suchsituation itshallberesponsibility ofthe institute tomake arrangement fortransporting the students to the centre ofexamination without any extra charges from the students similarly the university canalsobelptbe students ofthe other colleges Institute oftothecollegeInstitute under referencefor which necessary infrastructure shall be provided by the principal concemed. 1.3 Building The entire building ofthe college Shelby at the disposal ofthe Controller of Examination of the university for the purpose of conduct of examination as and when the centre of examination (for theory and practical) both is created; it shall be obligatory for principal to provide necessary infrastructure for smooth conduct of examinations. 1.4 Strong Room Strong room there should be a strong room in the college at the at a prime location adjacent to the office of principal to keep the confidentialmaterial ofthe university as and whenrequired the strong will essentially have a double lock system. 1.5 Staff Staff for the purpose of conduct of examination the service of entire teaching and non-teaching staff shall be at the disposal of a Controller of Examination of the University examination duties can be assigned to any member of teaching and non-teaching staff which shall have to be compiled with in the interest of smooth conduct of examinations. AssistantBiglstar(Examination)

[PAGE 4]
In exercise of the powers conferred by and in discharge of duties assigned under the relevant provision(s) of the HVSU Act 25 of 2016, Statutes and Ordinances; PRELIMINARY Short Title and Commencement (a) These Ordinances shall be called the Examination Ordisances, 2020. (b) They shall come into force from the Academic Session 2020-21 Definitions In these Ordinances, unless the context otherwise requires: a) "Academic Calendar" means the schedule of academic and other related activities as approved by the Dean and CoE b) “Academic Office" means the Academic Office of the University; c) *BOE" means the Board of Examinations of the University; d) "BOS" means the Board of Studies ofa particular Faculy /Program of the University; *COE" means the Controller of Examinations of the University; f) *Clause" means duly numbered Clauses of these Ordinances; 8) *Centre In-charge" means a person appointed by the University to conduct the examinations at the examination center, h) *Course" means, a specific subject usually identified by its coursenumber and coursetitle, with specified credits and syllabus/coursedescription, a set of references, taught by some teacher(s)/course-instructor(s) to a specific class (group of students) during a specific academic-session/semester; "Course Instructor"means, the teacher/faculty member or the course instructor ofa course; j) *SUGC* means, the Faculty Under Graduate Committee; *SPGC" means, the Faculty Post Graduate Committee; 1) Degree Program" includes all Degree (UG /PG) NSQF Level 7 / Level 9 and Diploma IAdvanced Diploma / NSQF level 5 / level 6 and Certificate Programs as finishing / skill development programme of 1 to 6 months. M (bamination) Assigtant k Sz.2]

[PAGE 5]
m) “Faculty"means the Department / Faculty / Institute offering the concerned Degree / Diploma programs; n) "HOD" means the Head of the Concemed Department/Faculty; (0 *Co-ordinator" means the Nodal officer of the specific programme p)“Tnstitute" means a constitucnt institution of the University established for monitoring. supervising and guiding, teaching, training and research activities in brody related fields of studies; "Progam Curriculum" includes the set of Program Structure and Program-Specific Ordinances, if any, CourseStructure, Course-Contents/Syllabi; r) "Examination Department" means a department constituted by the University to deal with all issues related to University examinations; *Examination Centre" means a college or a Faculty / a department where the University examinations are conducted; "Expulsion" means permanent removal of the student from the University rolls with prohibition on future enrolment; "Rustication" from the University means the withdrawal of right of the student of access to entire premises and facilities ofthe University foraspecified period and/ or till the fulfilment of specified conditions; "Faculty" means a constituent institution of the University establisbed for monitoring. supervising and guiding, teaching, training and research activities in broadly related fields of studies; w) *Vice Chancellor" means the Vice Chancellor ofthe University; and 1.0 INTRODUCTION 1.1 The Examination Ordinances, 2020 are applicable to the Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Degree, and, Diploma Programs of the University. 1.2 EXAMINATIONS 1.2.1 End Term Examination is the final examination conducted by the University at the end of each Semester and Summer Term, as applicable, during the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. 1.2.2The detailed schedule of the End Term Examinations conducted by the University shall be published / announced by the Controller of Examinations at least O1 (one) month before the scheduled date of examinations. Assistant Pegzstrar (Examination)

[PAGE 6]
1.2.3 The End Term (Final) Examination shall be held at the designated examination centres of the University. 1.2.4 The Mid Term Examinations of the University shall be conducted by the HODs of the concemed Departments/Facultys/lnstitutes on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. 1.2.5 The detailed schedule of the Mid Term Examinations will be published / announced by the HODs concerned, at least 01 (one) week before the scheduled date of Mid Term Examinations. 1.2.6 The Final Examinations of the Summer Term, where applicable, shall be conducted by the Controller of Examinations on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. The Summer Tem Final Examination shall be beld at the designated examination centres of the University. 1.2.7 The detailed scbedule of the Final Examinations of the Summer Term shall be published/ announced by the Controller of Examinations at least 01 (onc) weck before the scheduled date of the Final Examinations of the Summer Term. 1.2.8 The Mid Term Examination of the Summer Tem, where applicable, shall be conducted by the HODs concemed in their respective Facultys/Institutes. 1.2.9 Makc-Up Examinations, f any, is the supplementary/special examination, conducted after End Term Examinations (as per the provisions of the Academic Ordinances), ie a second chance available to students to appear at the End Term (Final) Examination, shall be conducted by the University at designated centres of the University. 1.2.10 The schedule of the Mako-Up Examinstions shall be published/announced by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with Dean. 1.2.11 The Final Examinations for Practical, Jury, Viva Voce, Project Evaluation, etc, as applicablc shall be conducted by the coordinator in consultation with HOD concermed in their respective Faculties/lnstitutes under the supervision of dean. 1.2.12 The detailed schedule of the final examinations refered to in the above clause 2.1, shall be published by the Controller of Examinations in consultation with HODs concerned and Dean at least a week before the commencement of the Practical/Jury/Viva Voce, etc., Examinations. 1.2.13 All other continuous assessment examinations/tests/assessments shall be conducted by the respective faculty member's / course instructors as per the schedule announced in the respective Programme Plan or by the respective SUGC / SPGC. The HODs/Coordinators concemed shall be responsible for the smooth and timely conduct of such continuous assessments and the declarations/publication of the results/marks obtained in these continuous assessments/tests. 1.3, CONTROLLER OF EXAMINATIONS

[PAGE 7]
1.3.1 The Controller of Examinations (COE) shall be the Principal Officer for conducting the Examinations of the University. 1.3.2 The COE will be responsible for conducting the evaluation of the Answer Books of the End Term Examinations and declaring the results of the End Term Examinations ofthe University. 1.3.3 The Controller of Examinations, in consultation with the Dean and the approval of the Vice Chancellor, shall prepare and publish a schedule of examinations for each program conducted by the University at least 01 (one) month before the scheduled date of examinations. 1.3.4 The Contrller of Examinations ofthe Uaiversity shall maintain the list of examining bodies, examiners and proposed by the Chairman, Board of Studies, duly scrutinized and approved by the Dean. 1.3.5 The Controller of Examinations of the University shall maintain a panel of Paper Setters, Moderators, Intemal and Extermal Examiners for each course from the list given by the Chairman, Board of studies and approved by the Dean. 1.3.6 The Paper Setter, Intermal and Extemal Examiners shall be appointed from the approved a panel of examiners. In case of unavailability of Paper Setter and Examiner so appointed, another of Dean. 1.3.7COE may add names of paper setter /extemal examiner as and when required with the approval ofVC. 1.3.8 The Controller of Examinations shall send intimation to the Paper Setter, Examiner and Moderator (as applicable) regarding their appointment with appropriate instructions, guidelines relating to the paper setting / assessment, as the case may be. 1.4.0 CENTRE IN-CHARGE FOR CONDUCTING UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS 1.4.1 The Controller of Examinations shall appoint a superintendent in chief for a constituent Faculty / Institute for the smooth conduct of University examination. 1.4.2 Principal of the college / Institute / Dean of the University shall act as superintendent-in chief. In exceptional circumstances, Controller of Examinations on the direction of the Vice Chancellor may appoint a Professor as the Superintendent in-chief for conduct of University examinations at a centre even though he/she may not be a staff member of the constituent Department/Faculty/lnstitute of the University. 1.4.3 The Controller ofExaminations on recommendstion ofconcemed Department/Faculty/Institute shallappoint a centre superintendent for a constituent Faculty / Institute for the smooth conduct of the University examination. Assistant Reggra (Emamination)

[PAGE 8]
1.4.4 The Centre superintendent shall be responsible for the smooth conduct of the University examinations at the designated centre. The Centre superintendent shall ensure that no person other than the examinees, invigilators, and such persons, as may be authorized by him or by the University, shall be allowed to enter the Examination Hall. 1.4.5 The Examination Department shall supply adequate mumber of copies of question papers (in sealed packets) and answerbooklets required at each centre to the Superintendent in Chief (SC) in reasonable time. 1.4.6 The Superintendent in Chief hand over the adequate number of copies to the Centre Superintendent one day before the start of examination. The centre superintendent willcollect the sealed question papers from the Superintendent in Chief only one hour before the start of paricular paper s per the schedule or as prescribed the University time to time. 1.4.7 The centre superintendent must ensure that the adequate sealed papers must be available with the Superintendent in chief as per the date sheet provided by the university and if found any deficiency the centre superintendent must infom to the COE through superintendent in chief well in advance. 1.4.8The Centre Superintendent (CS) shall return the unused question paper and answer booklets to the Examination Department within the time as prescribed by the Examination Department. The Centre In-Charge shall dispatch the used answer booklets to the Examination Department ofthe University, immediately on conclusion of examinations, each day. 1.4.9 The controller of examination shall appoint the Deputy Centre Superintendent (DS) recommended by the Superintendent in chief, and a panel of Assistant Superintendent /lnvigilator from the faculty / college /institute as per the requirement (on the basis of strength of students) for the smooth conduct of examination.

[PAGE 9]
Chapter-2 Enrolment, Schedule of Examinations and Admit Cards 2.1 Enrolment () Every candidate for an examination of the University shall, except when exempted by any of the Regulations, be alltted an Enrolment number and be enrolled as a student of a constituent or an affliated college or teaching department ofthe University before entering upon the course preseribed for such examination and should have undergone a regular course of study at that college/ department. Candidate has to apply for errolment in the very academic session of year of the admission, failing which his/her admission shall automatically stand cancelled. () The fee structure for Enrolment and related activities shall be as notified by the University from time to time. 2.2 Schedule of Examinations/Results () CoE shall announce the Date-sheet as per the Academic Calendar to conduct the Examinations. () Keeping in view the preparation of pre-conduct phase CoE shall announce the last date of submission of Examinations forms/details ie. online or ofline including the last date of submission with fine. () After completion of evaluation work the Controller of Examinations shall deelare the results. 2.3 Admit Card On receipt of the fee prescribed, the University shall, ifthe candidate is admitted, fumish the candidate with an admission card permitting him/her to appear in the examinations. () Permission to appear at a University examination may be withdrawn if a student is found ineligible or student him/her self-misled through false information. (ii) A candidate may not be admitted to the examination hall unless he/she produces to the officer conducting the examination his/her examination admit card or satisfies such officer that it will be produced later. Assistant Regiatrar (Examinatinn)

[PAGE 10]
(iv) The Centre Superintendent may, if he/she is satisfied that an examination admit card has been lost or destroyed, grant on payment of a further fee as approved by University from time to time duplicate examination admission card. The card so granted shall show at a prominent place the number and date of the card originally granted. (>) Admit card will be issued only once to a student, However, the admit card can be reissued to the student, if lost, on payment of Rs. 250/-, The Admit Card will be reissued subsequently on payment of Rs. 500/- and on production of FIR report for the loss of Admit Card. hedmination) 10

[PAGE 11]
Chapter-3 Appointment of Staff 3.1 Appointment of Examiners () Examiners and/or evaluators shall be appointed on the recommendation ofthe Board of Studies concemed for the selection of examiners. (日) If any examiner and /or evaluator is unable to act for any cause and fresh appointment cannot be made in time in the manner prescribed by sub-section (i), the CoE shall have () For each question paper ofa course ofstudy two paper setters shallbe appointed on terms, conditions and instructions determined by the Controller of Examinations in prescribed fomat of the University. (iv) Controller of Examinations shall appoint the examiners for practical from the panel of cxaminers and the faculty from the university and afiliated institutions. In case of non- availability of experts or some extraordinary ceircumstances the examiners can be selected by COE from other places also. (m) The maximum remuneration to a person for examinations shall be as notified by the University from time to time. (vi) Any person who either is not qualified to be appointed as an examiner oris debared from being an examiner in any subjectin the University shall ipso -facto cease to be associated with the process of the appointment of examiners. All work relating to examinations, tests and evaluation (such as paper -setting, assessment, invigilation, superintendence, viva voce, practical, tabulation, checking and inspection etc.) with or without payment ofremuneration shallbe deemed to be a part of normal duty of every teacher or/equivalent/supporting staff in the University or in an affiliated college/approved institution. (vi) Remuneration for theory, Practical examination work and other related activities shiali be as notified by the University from time to time. Deductions shall be made from the remuneration bills unless condoncd by the Vice Chancellor in special cases. Details for the deductions shall be as notified by the University from time to time. 3.2 Appointment of officers and staff 11

[PAGE 12]
The Controller of Examinations shall appoint required number of Officials for conducting the examination smoothly, as below: The end semester examinations of the students registered with the University Teaching Departments shall be conducted by the concerned teaching department. The answer sheet and question papers shall be supplied by the Examination Wing of the University. Chairperson/Dean ofthe department/ faculty shall act as Supdt-in-Chief and will appoint other supporting staff from the faculty members & staff members of the concemed department (s) except thosefaculty/staffwhich are deputed by Controller ofExaminations. Deputy supdt shall not be appointed for the examinations of the University teaching departments conducted at department level. In case of absence of Centre Supdt due to some unavoidable circumstances on particular day(s)/session(s), the supdt-in-chief shall appoint one of the faculty member as Centre Supdt. Chairperson shall try to appoint the senior faculty as Centre Supdt. on the basis ofrotation and the Centre Supdt should not be replaced during the examinations except in some extraordinary circumstances and in consultation with Controller of Examinations. In case of those departments where strength of students on roll is less than 100 for both UG and PG programs their examinations shall be conducted by merging such departments with the other departments by an order of Controller of Examinations. It is further clarified that if department 'X is merged with department“Y* for the examination purpose then the entire faculty and stafr of department ‘X' shall perform the examination duties in the Examination Centre of department ‘Y*, Various teaching departments in the same building or adjacent buildings may merge the examination centres, if strength of examinees on a particular session is less than 30 but this shall be done with the consent ofallconcemed Chairpersons-cum-Supd.-in-Chiefs and the decision should be conveyed to Controller ofExaminations well in advance. If the strength ofthe candidates in any session during the examinations conducted at department level is less than 30, Centre Superintendent may appoint one invigilator. () Controller of Examinations will appoint Centre Superintendent and Deputy Centre Superintendents at the examination centres ofUniversity and affliated colleges. Teaching faculty shall perform the (m) duties of invigilation. Research Scholars/TI/Sr. Tech/Tech/WI/ or equivalent should generally not be engaged in examinations duties. However, Controller ofExaminations/Superintendent in Chiefcan appoint them in urgency for fair conduct of Examinations. (iv) The Controller of Examinations, if necessary, may appoint the University Appointed observer, and flying squad for the centre to ensure the faimess ofconduct of examination (v) University vehicle/hired vehicle by Examination wing shall be provided to such Observers and Flying squad. A person at the level of Professor/ Associate Professor shall be appointed as 12

[PAGE 13]
Observer/flying squad Convener. In case of non-availability ofUniversity vehicle/ hired vehicle, Observers/ Flying Squads Convener/Members shall use his/her vehicle, payment for which shall be made as per rule. It is mandatory that all the members of Flying Squad shall travel in one vehicle. 13

[PAGE 14]
Chapter-4 Instructions for Superintendent-in-Chief for the conduct of examinstions 4.1 These instructions shall be read in conjunction with the following document notified by the University: G) General instructions for the guidance of the candidates appearing for Examination () Duties and responsibilities of Superintendent in Chief, Centre Superintendent, Deputy Centre Superintendent, Outsider (OS) and invigilator. 4.2 General () The COE shall create the Examination Centres for the conduct of respective examinations from time to time. (同) Each institute, which is declared as Examination Centre for the conduct of the University Examinations, shall have a Superintendent in Chief wbo shall be, generally, the Head of the Institution and shall be appointed by the COE. (m) No person shall be appointed as Superintendent in Chief for the examinations of two bodies held simultaneously at the same institution. () The Superintendent in Chief shall be responsible for the smooth and proper conduct ofthe examinations at his/ her centre. He/ She shall take necessary precautions and actions before, during and after the examinations as per stipulated guidelines of the Examination Wing and shall be responsible for the fair conduct of Examinations. (4) The Superintendent in Chiefshall remain availableat the centre during the period of theory examinations and shall remain at the Headquarter/Centre during and on all the days ofthe examination. In case of any emergency, he/she shall make all the necessary arrangements for the proper conduct of examination by entrusting the responsibility to a seniorfaculty member of his/ ber confidence, with prior intimation to the Controller of Examination. (vi) The Superintendent in Chief shall convene a meeting of all the staff members involved in the examination work, two or three days prior to the commencement of examinations and cxplain them the duties and responsibilities. He/she shall also inform to strictly follow fhe instructions laid down by the University. The Superintendent in Chief shall impress upon them the need for prevention of any kind of malpractice during the examination. Assistat FReatrgy (fdminaton) 14

[PAGE 15]
(vii) The Superintendent in Chief shall also ensure that all the officials involved in the examination duties are aware of their duties/ responsibilities as well as of other officials in order to have smooth & better coordination during the examination period. (vii) The Superintendent in Chief/Supdt. shall obtain any kind of help from the local authorities to maintain law and order in the premises of the examination centre. It shall be duty of Supdt-in-Chief/Supdt, to curb the outside disturbance, if any. (ix) Superintendentin Chief shall ensure to provide necessary instructions to the security staff for allowing University Officials (University Appointed Centre Supervisor, Observer, Flying Squad etc.) unhindered access to the centre to make sudden visits, immediately afier establishing their identity by inspection of their cards/orders issued by the University. In no case they should be detained at the gate for want of permission of Superintendentin Chief. (x) It shallbe duty of Institute to supply the strength of candidates in cach coursc one day before the examination so that sufficient number of Question Papers can be supplied by the Examination Wing of University. (xi) Norms of the staff which may be engaged by the Superintendent-in-Chieffor examination work at each examination centre: - S.NO Staff No. of person to be engaged (a) ClassIIIstaff(Clerical)- Centre Clerk No, of Registered candidates for the 01 -up to 350 candidates session 01 additional -for subsequent 350 candidates or part thereof (9) Daftari 01 One Daftari irespective of number of candidate Class IV Staff(like Waterman/ Peon etc.) (c) 03 -Upto 350 candidates-for 01 subsequent 150 candidates.or. part thereof Sweeper 01 15

[PAGE 16]
Chapter-5 Duties and Responsibilities of personals appointed for conduct of examinations 5.1 Duties and Responsibilities of Centre Superintendent () Centre Supdt, shall be the incharge of examination centre and he/she shallbe responsible to conduct the examination in a smooth manner at the examination centre allotted to him. (间) The Centre Superintendent shallnot leave the station during the examination days for any purpose without obtaining prior permission of the CoE/Superintendent -in-Chief. In case of emergency when Centre Supdt. proceed on leave then the Deputy Centre Supdt, shall act as Centre Supd. and one of the invigilator shall be appointed as Deputy Centre Supdt. by the Supdt. -in-Chief. Centre Supdt, shall ensure that Answer Seripts of candidates are sent to the University on the day of examinations. (iv) Centre Supdt, shall depute one Invigilator for every 30 students. (v) One Invigilator shall be named as Outsider (OS) for every 100 examinces. In case of emergency, OS shall act as reserve Invigilator. (vi) Teachers accompanying their students from outside colleges may also be taken as Invigilator. The Centre Superintendent shall take care not to allot a particular Invigilator to the same room successively. (vi) No invigilator shall be appointed if strength of the examination centre is below 30 on a particular dayf session of examination, In such a situation best effort shall be made to merge the centre with another examination centre and only centre clerk will do all the necessities. In casc of non-mergcr, the Deputy Centre Supdt. shallact as invigilator. (vii) Centre Superintendent shall ensure that attendance of his/her examination centre is uploaded on the portal ofall the persons engaged in the examination centre on daily basis including the attendance of students. (ix) In addition to the above any other notified by COE from time to time. 5.2 Duties and responsibilities of Deputy Centre Superintendent The Deputy Centre Superintendent shall assist the Centre Superintendent in general, for the smooth conduct of Examination at the centre. 16 sturir (Examinaton) Assistant Re?

[PAGE 17]
() The Deputy Centre Superintendent shall remain at the centre during the entire period of the University examination. In case of any emergency he/she shall take the permission of the Centre Superintendent requesting him to make altermate arrangements () The Deputy Centre Superintendent shall attend to any work entrusted to him by the Centre Supdt. in connection with the Examination. (iv) The Deputy Centre Superintendent shall act as Centre Supdt, in the absence of Centre Supdt. (3) In addition to the above any other notified by CoE from time to time. Duties responsibilities of the 5.3 and Uaiversity Appointed Flying Squad/Observer The University Appointed Flying Squad/Observer will be appointed by the CoE from amongst the teachers/equivalents of University/afiliated colleges for the smooth and fair conduct of examinations. (i) The Flying Squad/Observer can ask any examinations record from Centre Superintendents for the purpose of fair conduct ofExaminations, They can further advise him/her according to circumstances for fair conduct of the Examinations. (ii) During the Examination, he/she shall ensure that allthe Room Invigilators are discharging their duties properly and there is no scope for malpractice. (iv) The Flying Squad/Observer shall supervise with the Centre Superintendent the packing and sealing of the answer book bundles and their safe custody. (v) -In case of answer books, which cannot be dispatched on the very day, tbe answer book bundles shall be kept under the safe custody of the Superintendent in Chief. (vi) However, the Centre Superintendent as well as the Superintendent in Chief shall jointly sign the paper seal pasted to the room where the bundles are preserved. (vi) The Flying Squad/Observer shall give his/her own report whenever malpractice cases are detected. examination official/staff, he/shc shall bring this fact to the notice of the Centre Superintendent immediately. (ix) He/she shall be entitled for remuneration, honorarium, TA & DA as per University norms by sending billalong with the attendance certificate to the University. 17 Asistant Regstar(Examination)

[PAGE 18]
5.4 Duties and responsibilities of Invigilator The Invigilator shall report to the Centre Superintendent at least 45 minutes before the commencement of the examination on the first day and 30 minutes before the start of examination on successive days/ sessions of examinations, (同) The Invigilator shall go fo the examination room/hall allotted to him/her 15 minutes before the commencement ofthe examination with relevant examination material and ensure that no chits or any other material are found in the room. () The candidates shallbe admitted into the examination hall 15 minutes before the commencement of the examination or as notified by the university from time to time. (iv) The Imvigilator shall announce to the students to leave the books, papers and other reference materials etc., outside the examination hall and read out the warning note before the issue of Question Papers as below; *The candidates in the examination hallshould search desks,tables, their pockets& other belongings and handover to Invigilator,if any paper/ notes / manuscripts or written materials are found in possession of candidate, he/she will be booked under unfair means." (v) Ten minutes before the commencement of examination, the answer books shall be distributed to those candidates only, who are seated in the examination hall and are not to be placed on the vacant seat. (v) The Invigilator shall distribute the question papers to the candidates seated in the examination hall only at the scheduled timings of examinations (vii) The Invigilator shall ensure that candidates take their seats before the commencement of examination even though the candidate shall be allowed to enter the examination hall up to half an hour from the commencement of the paper in extraordinary circumstances. (vii) The Invigilator shallensure that if a candidate decides to stop his/her writing of examination before one bour of the temination of exam, he/she will not be allowed to take away his/her question paper. He/she shall leave it with the Invigilator and may take it from him/her at the end of examination. However, no candidate should be allowed to leave examination hall for any purpose within first two hours of the commencement of examination or as per the instructions issued by the University from time to time in this regard. (ix) afler ensuring that the candidates have takentheir seats and have entered the oorrect rollnumber, 18

[PAGE 19]
and other particulars required on the facing sheet of the answer book checking the identity of the candidate with photo on admit card and office copy of admit card, and shall obtain the signature of the candidates on the prescribed attendanee sheet. (x) The Invigilator shall remain alert in the examination hall and shall attend to the requests of the candidates for supply of the graph sheets, codes & other relevant material. (xi) Invigilator shall ensure that any undesired materials brought by the students are outside the room at his/her risk only. (xii) If any student has not brought his/her admit card and Identity Card, the matter shall be brought to the notice of the Centre Superintendent for issuing provisional card. (x) If any candidate is absent, the word ABSENT shall be written in capital leters in the appropriate column of the attendance sheet, preferably in red ink, afler 30 minutes from the commencement of the examination. A consolidated statement showing the subject-wise, candidates prcsent and absent be submitted in the prescribed form. (xiv) After half an hour of the commencement of the examination, the spare answer books and question papers shallbe returned to fhe OS or an official deputed by Centre Supdt, when he/she visits the examination room/hall (xv) The Invigilator shall not accept the answer book of any candidate without ensuring that, it bears his/her correct University roll number and other infomation asked on the title page of the answer books. (xvi) The Invigilator shall not allow the candidate to use unfair means in the examination hall. (xvi) The candidate going for toilet sbould be escorted properly; however frequent use of toilet by the candidate should be discouraged. (xvii) The Invigilator shalltake rounds in the hall and shall not engage themselves in conversation with other Invigilator, while the examination is going on and also shall not cngage in reading magazine or newspaper or doing any work other than his/her duty for examination. (xix) The Invigilator shall ensure that there is no communication among the candidates in the examination hall. (xx) The violations of instructions by any candidate shall be brought to the notice of the Centre Superintendent immediately and a written report is to be made regarding such cases to the University by the Centre Superintendent immediately. (xxi) Smoking and taking tea/coffee or any other refreshment in the hall or around by the candidate, where the examination is in progress is strictly prohibited (This includes chewing of tobaco ete.). (xxil) The Invigilator should also declare the following timings in his/her room 19

[PAGE 20]
a. Half of the Examination Duration b. Half an hour before the Examination ends c. Ten minutes before the end of the examination (xxii) After fhe expiry ofthe time of the examination, the invigilator shall collect the answer books and shall arrange them roll number wise and hand over to the authorized officials in Centre Superintendent office along with other reports. Candidates shall not be allowed to leave the examination hall till all the answer books are collected. (xxiv) The Invigilator shall be personally hcld responsible for the loss/ misplacement of any answer books before handing over to the office of the Centre Superintendent. While taking rounds of the examination hall, if the Invigilator notices that, any candidate is indulging in copying or possessing a manuscript or answer book other than that of the candidate, any written material on calculator/geometry box/scale, he/she shall immediately take in his/her possession the candidate's answer book, question paper, and the materials which he/she has used or intended to use for copying and immediately report to the Centre Superintendent. He/she should not allow the candidate to leave the examination halltill the Centre Superintendent comes to the examination hall and takes over the charge. (xxvi) Any dereliction of duty on the part of the Invigilator shall be seriously taken and the Centre Superintendent shall take necessary action as per the guidelines of the University and report the same to the University immediately. (xxvi) Whenever a flying squad/ Observer of the University make a surprise visi, the Invigilator shall ensure their identity and allow to cnter the examination hall for surprise check. (xxvii) The Invigilator shall not leave the Centre premises until he/she personally hands s over the answer books to the Centre Superintendent and returmn the relevant materials given. 5.5 Duties and responsibilities of the Outsider (OS) () The Centre Superintendent shall appoint the OS from amongst the senior faculty. () The OS shall be active and shall be moving from foom to room (assigned to him) during the examination hours and shall be a communication link between Invigilator and Centre Superintendent for any emergent requirement. (i) The OS shall not replace the Invigilator during the first and last half-an-hour of the examination. During the intervening period, he/she shallrelieve the Invigilator to attend nature's calls. (Examination) Asida hyist 20

[PAGE 21]
() The OS shall assist the Centre Superintendent in general for smooth conduct of examination at the centre particularly in distribution of question papers to Invigilator room wise. (v) The OS shall in addition to the above duties attend to any other work entrusted to him / her by Centre Superintendent. (vi) The OS shall relieve the Invigilator for essentials such as use of urinals and be in charge of the duties of invigilator during that period and discharge all the duties and responsibilities of the Invigilator. (vi) The OS shall report for duty 45 minutes before the commencement of examination on the first day and 30 minutes before on successive days/sessions. (vili) The OS shall also observe/keep a watch in and around the examination rooms (assigncd to him) to ensure overall discipline, 21

[PAGE 22]
Chapter-6 Norms to be followed for smooth conduct of examinations 6.1 Advance preparations The Centre Clerk shall ensure the preparation of the statement regarding seating arrangements for the candidates (Table + Chair) well in advance as below: - (a) A definite seat for each candidate in good condition. As far as possible, candidates appearing in the same subjects should not be allowed to sit together (at least side by side). (c) A plan of seating arrangement showing the position of candidates (according to their roll number) in each room for each day must be displayed at accessible place for the examinees & copy of the same shall be sent to Controller of Examinations along with other material after the examinations. () General instructions that are made available to each candidate should be pasted on notice board & candidates should be advised to read them carefully before appearing for examination. () The Deputy Centre Superintendent shall check requirements (ifany) for additional material to be supplied to examinees during examination such as -Drawing sheets, Steam tables, IS codes etc. and keep them ready for distribution to examinees. (iv) Before giving answer-books to the candidates, the facsimilc seal of CoE shall be affixed on answer-books/answer sheets on the space specified for the purpose using blue ink only. If the Centre Superintendent finds any answer-book in bad shape, he/she is requested not to issue such answer-books to the candidates to avoid any manipulation. Answer-books should, therefore, in no case be stamped in larger quantity than required for each day's use so that ifby any chance blank answer- books are stolen at a centre and afterwards smuggled into the answer- books collected at the end of an examination. 6.2 Handling of question papers () The Centre Superintendent/ Deputy Centre Supdt. shall acknowledge the receipt of packets containing question papers sent by University in the prescribed format to CoE as soon as they receive fhe Qucstion Paper Packet(s). () The Centre Superintendent shall carefully observe the state in which the eavelopes reach them. Ifan envelope appears to have been tampered with or found unsealed, the fact should 22 Aninatioa) Assistaht

[PAGE 23]
be reported to the CoE at once and the envelope must be kept securely in the same condition with him duly sealed in a bigger envelope. (ii) The name of examination, subjec, paper, date and time noted on the envelope should also be checked with the programme of examination and the discrepancy, if any, should be brought to the notice of the CoE immediately. (iv) CoE may alse adopt various measures to handover/deliver the question papers on the same day of examination in order to conduct fair and smooth examinations. (v) In case question papers are supplied in advance then all packets of question papers should be kept in strong room with sealed lock. The Superintendent in Chief shall be solely responsible for the safe custody of the Question Papers at his/ ber Centre. 6.3 On the day of examination and before commencement of Examinations On the day of examination, the relevant sealed peckets of the Question Papers shall be taken out from the strong room not earlier than half an hour scheduled for the commencement of the examination in the presence of Deputy Centre Superintendent or one or two other officials. () Before taking the envelopes to the main examination hall, the officials shall carefully examine the date, time, subject, number of question papers witen on the packet, The Centre Superintendent shall also ascertain to avoid wrong opening of a Question Paper envelope of a later session or a later date. (ii) Opening of envelopes containing question paper(QP): - (a) Packet of question papers should be opened only 15 minutes before the scheduled start of examination. (9) Before an envelopeis opened, the Centre Superintendent and ofher witnesses should sign the prescribed certificate. Each person should sign legibly and give his/her designation below his/her same. (c) While opening the sealed envelope, the Centre Superintendent should not break the seals but cut the envelope at onc cnd ncatly with a pair of scissors. The envelopes so opened with the certificates duly signed should be returned to the CoE afler the examination () Afer opening an envelope, the Centre Superintendent shall ensure to check the number of question papers and the heading of ceach question paper with the contents noted on the which is fixed for a later day or a later hour is mixed up. If such a paper is found, it should 23 Asslstalt Feegtra (Examination)

[PAGE 24]
be sealed properly in an envelope and kept along with the envelopes containing copies of the same paper and the fact reported to the CoE. The Centre Superintendent should check the heading printed on the first page of all the copies ofthe question papers. After opening the question paper packets, the Centre Superintendent/Deputy Centre Supdt. shall arrange to put the question papers required for each block/each room in separate cover, which shall contain actual number of papers as per the number of candidates taking the examination in the block/room. () The packet with the required number of answer books and other stationery supplements wllbe handed over to concerned Invigilatorto take to fhe examination hallas soon as they report for duty (ie. 45 minutes before on the first day of commencement of examination and 30 minutes before on successive days/sessions), The Invigilator are to be present in the respective examination hall/Room at least 30 minutes before the commencement ofthe examination on first day and 15 minutes before on subsequent days/sessions. (vi) The Centre Superintendent/ Deputy Centre Supdt. shall arrange to provide the seating arrangement, answer sheets and question papers to the Invigilator. (vi) The Centre Superintendent shall give required instructions to the Invigilator to inform to the candidates 5 minutes before the commencement of the examination. 6.4 During the examinations Candidates may be admited to the examination hall 15 minutes before the time fixed for the examination. Normally a candidate arriving late for any paper is not entitled to be admitted to the examination hall. However, within half an hour of commencement of examination such candidates are allowed to take examination after asccrtaining that no candidate had leff the examination halltilthen oras perthe instructions/notification issued bythe University in this regard from time to time. No extra time should be given to such candidates. (ii) Candidatesare not to be admitted to the examination hallunlesstheir names appear in the eligibility/rollist. Centre Superintendent shall ensure to infom the candidates to bring their admit cards with them which should be inspected every day as far as possible and returmed after inspection. (iv) The Centre Superintendent shall ensure that all eligible candidates appear in examination ie.no one having a valid admit card mentioning the subjects for which he/she is eligible for appearing in the examination is detained. (v) If any candidate, whose name appears in the eligibility/roll list, forgets to bring his/her admit card or loses it and does not succeed in getting its duplicate copy from the University 24

[PAGE 25]
office in time, he/she may be admitted to the examination after ascertaining the validity of the claim (given in writing by the candidate), the Centre Superintendent shall issue a provisional admission card valid for that day oaly) on a payment as notified by the University from time to time. The details ofissuing such provisional cards should be sent to CoE along with the fee collected, if any, at the cnd ofexamination (vi) The Centre Superintendent shall ensure to notify to all candidates that they should place their belongings i.e. books/notes/any undesirable material at the space specified outside the exam hall for the purpose only. Ne guarantee will be given for the custody of such articles. Bringing mobile phones into the examination hall is strictly prohibited, This fact shall be well noticed to the candidates. The Centre Superintendent shall also instruct the Invigilator not to allow mobile phones and any study material, notes in the examination hall under any circumstances. The candidates shall be solely responsible for bringing such articles at the examination centre. (vi) Centre Superintendent is fully empowered to conduct pre -entry scarch of candidates for any uniawfil material to prevent use of unfair -means in the examination. He/she willfurther be empowered to involve male/female staff as required for this purpose. It willbeobligatory on the part of the examinee to submit him/her for such search. Such search can be made during examination time also, This may be notified to the candidates for the information. (vii) Candidates should prepare themselves for giving search physically to the officials appointed by the University/Centre Superintendent for the examination purpose, if they are asked to do so during the examination. (ix) The Centre Supcrintendent shall ensure that no candidate who is actually suffering from an infectious disease, such as small-pox, plague, influenza ctc. or who, though convalescent, is not free from infection, is allowed to sit for the examination. If such a candidate is noticed after the examination has begun, immediate steps should be taken to sce that his papers are destroyed and that other disinfecting measures are caried out. (x) Use of Scientific Calculator is permitted only if it is required as per instructions. However, programmable caleulators (one which has memory capacity of more than six numbers) are not permitted. (xi) Question paper should be distributed punctually at the time of commencement of the examination. Immediately afer the distribution ofquestion paper to the candidates the Centre Superintendent 25 AsststantReristrie(Examination)

[PAGE 26]
and check the number of spare copies with the number of question paper received minus the number of examinees present. No spare copy of the question paper should be left in the hands ofthe Invigilator orallowed to go outside the examination rooms tllat least twohours afterthe commencement of examination. No candidate should be alowed to submit answer sheet and leave examination room before 2 hrs of commencement of the examinations. However, if a candidate wishes to leave the examination room earlier, be/she should not be allowed to take question paper with him/her, It should be handed over to the Invigilator; to be returned to the candidate afer the examinations is over, Similarly, no candidate should be allowed to take the question papers with him/her while going out from the examination room for any purpose such as using urinals. (xi) Some extra copies of question papers are always sent but if ever the number of copies of a question paper fallshort and, therefore, the question paper cannot be supplied to some candidates in extra ordinary conditions, the paper may be got photo copied in a highly confidential manner and given to them and as much extra time as is taken in distributing photocopy paper duly signed by Centre Supdt. be allowed to them for answering the paper and the matter shallbe reported to the COE at once. However, extra time should not be allowed to other candidstes to whom printed papers are given in time. (xiv)In case a candidate asks for a question paper in an optional/elective or an altemative subject, not offered by him/her according to the entry in the printed roll list, he/she may be given the question aferwards that he/she had taken a question paper, not actually offered by him/her according to his/her declaration in the application form, his/her examination in that paper shall be liable to be cancelled. The Centre Superintendent should, however, try to satisfy him/herself by a reference to the entries in the application form with him/her that the candidate is not asking fora wrong question paper. All such cases should be immediately reported to CoE. (μx) Ifever thereisa complaint fromthe examinees that the question paper orapart thereofis out of the prescribed course, or that there is a misprint or some ambiguity in the question paper, they may be instructed to answer the question paper as given to them and send their representation along with a copy of the question paper to the University through the Centre Superintendent/Supdt. in-Chief within three days from the date of examination for consideration and necessary action. No announcement regarding cancellation of the paper shall be made by the Centre Superintendent or any other person except the CoE. Representation received after the above time limit shall not be entertained. CoE shall apply his/her best efforts before cancellation of examination, if possible, to make corections in the question papers, if necessary. hination) 26

[PAGE 27]
(xvi) Candidates found using unfair-means or indulging in disorderly conduct at or in connection with an examination shall be dealt with in accordance with the existing provisions. (xvi) On each day of the Examination and as soon as afier the commencement ofthe Examination the Centre Superintendent shall ensure with the help of Invigilator/ OS/ Deputy Centre Superintendent that all candidates have coectly writentheir roll numbers, and other particulars required to be entered on the title cover of Answer books (xvii) Nobody other than the official engaged for examination should be allowed to enter or move around the examination rooms without the permission of the Centre Superintendent. Poons/Attendants/Waterman or other persons should not be permitted to deliver letters to any candidate during the examination. Any communication with the candidates during the examination is strictly prohibited. (xix) No one should be permitted to speak to a candidate on any subject pertaining to the qucstions during the hours of examination, not even for the purpose of correcting a misprint or removing an ambiguity in a question paper. (xx) No one should be allowed to write after the prescribed time is over. (xxi) Smoking & other intoxicants are strictly prohibited in the examination hall. This includes chewing tobacco or spiting in the examination hallor around. (xxi) Whenever, the Centre Superintendent receives information that any candidate has indulged in malpractice, he/she should immediately take action as per the Unfair - means rules. (xxii) The Centre Superintendent shallensure to arange the delaration offllowing importanttimings through Invigilator/ OS as below: (a) Half of the Examination Duration (b) Half an hour before the Examination ends (c) Ten minutes before the end of the examination 6.5 Packing of answer books after the examination () Immediately after every session the answer-books of each paper collected from candidates will be arranged in the serial order of Roll Number and after counting them and checking the number of answer-books with the number of candidates appeared, the'same will be Centre Superintendent and under the supervision of Centre Superintendent: (a) Answer books of only one subjct and one examination must be packed in One sealed packet(s), Duly flld prescribed fom must be pasted on the packet. 27 Asifest Regatrar (Examination)

[PAGE 28]
(b)The prescribed forms like Memo showing the record ofanswer books, absentees etc. must be packed with the answer books. (c) One or more sealed packets may be put inside an outer packet for transmission to the University. (d) The details of packets must be recorded in the Centre Superintendent diary. (e) One copy of QP must necessarily be packed with every packet of Answer Books. () The Centre Superintendent shall send the writen answer books of all University examinations by registered parcel/authorized person on the day of the c concemed examination. However, these answer books should be packed & sealed soon after the examination is over. (m) The Centre Superintendent shallkeeparecord of daily attendance ofcandidates with their signatures. Rollmumbers of candidates absent from the examination in each paper for any reason whatsoever should be reported in the prescribed absentee statement/online, If any answer- book(s) is/are sent to the Controller of Examinations separately on acount ofthe candidate(s) having resorted to the use of unfair means or for any other reason, this fact should also be mentioned in the absentee statement. On the other hand, if no candidate turns up for examination in any paper, all the candidates should be reported absent in the absentee statement. The number of candidates examined at each centre as shown in the statement plus the number of candidates shown there as absent must tally with the number registered as shown in the consolidated numerical retun of candidates. If there is any discrepancy, the same should be clarified in the absentee statements and also intimated to the CoE separately through a letter. (iv) The Centre Superintendent shall note the above instructions and also the details of the subject, time allowed for each paper etc. carefully as given in the printed programme of examination. At the conclusion of the examination, he/she shall send a report for the information of the CoE that the examinations at his/her centre were conducted in accordance with these instructions, He may, ifbe thinks necesary and has some special suggestions to make for improvement for the conduct, of examinations, send a separate report to the CoE. (v) Remuncration for conduct of examinations at various centers shall be as notified by the University from time to time. Centre Superintendents arerequested to keep the expenditure within this limit, Actual expenses incurred on railway freight, postal charges and octroi 28 AssistanLgora (ahineticn)

[PAGE 29]
charges shall be paid extra on production of vouchers, All details shall be flled up in the preseribed form. (vi) The answer book (s) of candidates under UMC (Unfair Means Case) category should be packed separately. It is fiurther clarified that if a candidate has taken second answer sheet afer UMC on first answer script then both such answer scripts should be tagged together along with other relevant material. 6.6ln any emergency not provided for in the above rules, the Centre Superintendent may act according to his/her own disceretion with justification and report his/her action to the CoE. Orders passed by the CoE on any matter not provided for in these rules shail be binding on all. Assistant Regisraf (Examination) 29

[PAGE 30]
Chapter-7 Punishment Rules for those who uses Unfair Means during Examinations 7.1 Before the examination begins the Centre Superintendent or the Deputy Centre Superintendent ofthe examination centre shall call upon all the candidates to deliver to him/her allpapers, books or notes which they may have in their possession, He/she shallalso warn the candidates that if any ofthem fails to do so, he/she shallbe liable to penalty. Where a late comer is admitted, this warning shall be given to him/her at the gate. 7.2 The Centre Superintendent or the Deputy Centre Superintendent shallforward to the Controller ofExaminations on each day ofthe examination a declaration signed by him/her to the effet that the waming as required in Clause-7. 1 above was administered. 7.3 The Centre Superintendent shalltake action against an examinee who is found using or atempting to use unfair-means as defined in Clause-7.4 below, in the examination hallor within the premises of the examination centre. 7.4 Use of unfair means shall include the following: a) Having in his/hber possession or accessible to him/her during examination hours any papers, books or notes, witten or printed, or kind ofmaterial including body, clothing, mobile phone, pager or any kind of eletronic or any other device that can be used for communication or writing etc. b) Writing during the examination hours on any material (including the question paper or blotting paper) other than the answer-book. c) Talking to another candidate or to any person other than the members ofthe supervisory staffin or outside the Examination Hall during the cxamination bours. d) Consulting notes/ books in or outside the Examination Hall during examination hours. e) Attempting to take or taking help from any notes orhints written on any part of the body or on the clothes wom by the candidate or on the fumniture being used by the candidate. f) Receiving help from another candidate with or without his/her consent or giving help to another candidate or receiving help from any other person during examination hours. g) Disclosing his/her identity deliberately or asking any distinctive marks in his/her answer-book for that purpose or making an appeal to the cxaminer through the answer-book or using abusive or obscene language in the answer-book. Aslat agistrar(Cdmination) 30

[PAGE 31]
h) Presenting to the examiner a practical or class- work or note-book which does not belong to him/her. Communicating or attempting to communicate, directly or through another person with an examiner or with official of the University with the object of influencing him/her in the award of marks or making any approach or manipulation for that purpose. D)Swallowing/ destroying any note, paper etc. found with him/her during the examination hours. k) Making deliberate arrangement to cheat in the examination, such as: - Smuggling of ananswer-book in or outside the examination hallor insertion in the answer book of any sheet(s) written outside the examination hall Substitution, wholly or partly, of an answer-book by another answer book during or after the examination hours. Impersonation. Obtaining admission to the examination on a false representation. Forging another person's signature. Failing to deliver his/her answer book to the person in charge before leaving the Examination Hall. Tempering with the particulars (including Roll Number) on one's own answer book. Refusing to obey the Centre Superintendent or any other member of the supervisory staff inspecting staff or creating disturbance of any kind during the examination or otherwise misbehaving in or around the examination hallor threatening or assaulting any official conected with the examination, any time during, before or after the examination. Any other act of unfair-means 7.5 If a candidate is found to be or suspected to be guilty of using unfair means in the examination, the Superintendent may take away his/her answer book and permit him/her, if he/she so desires, to answer the remaining part of the question paper on a new answer book which shall be supplied to him/her on demand, The candidate may also appear in the rest of the examination in the subsequent papers at his/her own risk and subject to the decision ofthe University may take in his/her case for use of unfair means. The superintendent may also obtain the explanation of the candidate in writing. 7.6 The superintendent ofthe examination centre shallreport fo the University in the form received by the university, at the earliest, each case where use ofunfair means in the examination had been suspected or discovered with the explanation of the candidate concermed if any. If the candidate refuses to give any explanation this fact shall be recorded in the report. In case the candidate 31

[PAGE 32]
refuses to accept 2nd answer book when asked to do so, no new answer book be given to him/her and he/she be asked to leave the examination hall. 7.7 The Vice -Chancellor shall appoint one or more standing committe (s) on the recommendation of CoE to deal with cases of Unfair means in connection with examinations. The term of such committee will not exceed more than one year. 7.8 The standing committee shall have the power to: Cancel the particular paper or the entire examination in which he/she has been found guilty of use of unfair means. Such cancllation ofthe entire examination will be treated as re- appear in all theory papers of that semester. Debar the candidate from appearing in the said examination and/or in any other examination conducted by the University up to a period of three years. ii) The fllowing are the guidelines for standing committee on unfair means cases for award of punishment to the candidate who indulge in unfair means. NATURE OF OFFENCE PUNISHMENT a) For relevant material found in the possession a) Cancellation of the paper or of the entire concerning the subject and the paper in examination in which the candidate appeared. which the candidate appeared irrespective of the evidence that the material had been used for copying b) For being found with material relevant to the b) Cancellation of the entire examination in subject of paper with the evidence of copying which the candidate appeared, In addition, the or attempt at copying also be debarred candidate Aeu from appearing at the University examination for one year. c) For major offence like smuggling in and out c) Cancellation of the entire examination in of the answer shcet and misconduct etc. which the candidate appeared. In addition, the candidate also be may debarred from to three years. Asistant Restras(Eex lination) 32

[PAGE 33]
d) Any other offence not covered in (a), (b), d) Cancellation of the entire examination in (c) above which the candidate appeared. In addition, the also be candidate may debarred from appearing at the University examinations up to three years. 7.9 If the committee is unanimous in respect of their decision regarding the guilt of a candidate and regarding the quantumofpunishment, its decision shall be final.Ifthere is a dfference, ofopinion amongst the members ofthe committee, the matter shall be referred to the Vice-Chancellor whose decision shall be final. 7.10 The Vice-Chancellor on an application by a candidate or on his/her own may refer back the case to the members/ committee for reconsideration. The application for review shal have to be made within 30 days of the receipt of the decision of committee to the candidate. 7.11 The committee shall consider the reports of the Supervisor/ Inspecting staff before arriving at a decision Ifit considers necessary, the committee may take ithe evidence of any person. Inno case the candidate shall be allowed to represent himself/herself a advocate or any other person. 7.12 If a candidate appearing in un-cleared subject(s)/ paper(s) of a lower examination alongwith the higher examination is found guilty of use of unfair means in a subject/ paper of the lower or the higher examination, either of the examinations or both the examinations (higher and lower) may be cancelled. 7.13 In case a candidate denies the allegation(s) against him/her or ifthe Committee otherwise thinks it necessary, it shall fix a date, time and place for holding the enquiry and give a notice to the candidate by registered post, Sending such notice by registered post to the candidate at the address given by him/her in his/her examination admission application shall be deemed to be discharge of the University liability as to notice even if the candidate did not receive the letter or that he/she was not available at the said address. No adjournment of fhe meeting may be granted to the candidate on any account. On the date and time fixed in the notice which shall not be less than seven days from the date of its dispatch, the committee shall meet at the required place specified in the said notice for the purpose of holding the enquiry and the said candidate shall be allowed to be present and heard in the same. The Commttee after granting such hearing to the candidate as it may deem necessary, record its finding about the guilt of the candidate. AsistantBepistrarlEfxdmination) EE

[PAGE 34]
7.14 If any examiner reports any case of use of unfair means which he/she detected during the course of evaluation of answer books the same shall also be decided by the Standing Committee after getting the answer books checked and giving the candidate a reasonable opportunity to defend himself/herself. 7.15 If unfair means adopted by a candidate come to the noticc of the University after the examination, his/her case wilbe decided by the unfair means committee on such evidence as may be available after the candidate is given reasonable opportunity to defend himself/herself. 7.16 If a candidate is found guilty of unfair means after his/her result has been declared, the same shall be cancelled besides the candidate being awarded the punishment which would has been awarded to him/her had the fact of use of unfair means come notice before the declaration of his/her resuit. 7.17 The disqualification under this ordinance will be treated as a failure in the examination and consequences of failure will follow, if a candidate is also admtted to any course of study, or allowed to appear at any examination ofthis University during the period ofsuch disqualification. 7.18 If the Vice-Chancellor receives complains to the effect that the integrity of a University examination has been violated at an examination centre as a consequence of whole sale/mass copying or other use ofunfair-means, he/she may afer an enquiry, order re-examination in one or 7.19 In this ordinance, the word ‘Academic year’ means Academic year from August to July consisting of two semesters. 7.20 The record/ files of the decided cases shall be disposed off two years affer the period of disqualification. Assistantheeisirar(Esamination) 34

[PAGE 35]
Chapter-8 Evaluation of Answer Sheets Examination wing will send coded answer sheets to Evaluation Centre, Evaluation Centres will be established in respective Departments of the University. Chairperson of the Department will act as Head of Examiner. The Centre will have following manpower: S.No No. of persons to be Staff engaged Class II Staff(Clerical)/Technical Staff 10 Class IV Staff Checking Assistant Head ofExaminers willensure evaluation ofanswer sheets through the faculty ofthe Department and Panel provided from CoE. The panel may include faculty and their contact details from affliated Institutes. Answer scripts should be issued in such a way that a faculty can evaluate maximum 60 in a day. The Evaluation Centers in colleges shall be created by CoE as per requirement. Class IIl Staff will act under direct control of Head of Examiners. He will manage all routine affairs of the Centre. He will receive and dispatch answer scripts to and from Exam Wing, He will further ensure distribution of answer books to concemed faculty in consultation with Head of Examiners. He will also receive back the answer scripts from faculty. Packet issued to a faculty member shall be returned to the Evaluation Centre afler evaluation and uploeding of marks within ten days failure in this regard by faculty member, it shall be treated as negligence of duty which shall be dealt as per service rules of the University. Note: - All examinations duties whether paid or unpaid will be treated as part of regular service matter. If not attended properly, will invite punishment as regulated in service matter. Warning/ explanation will be issued in first violation of the duty. However, continuous violations for example third can invite even debarring from the examination purpose. Increment of an employce will be seized in that year if debarred from examination duties during third violation. Debarring will be effective in all parts of the examination process ie. Viva, invigilation, evaluation etc. 35 Asistaht Rigiyaf(Eamination)

[PAGE 36]
Chapter-9 Re-evaluation Rules 9.1 GENERAL These rules wil be applicable to all the examinations from the Academic Session 2020 - 21 and onwards. 9.2 SCOPE () Re-evaluation will be permitted only for the theory examinations conducted by this University. () No re-evaluation is allowed for examination in Practical, Viva, Studio Exam of Architecture and any other papers where there is a joint evaluation by two examiners. 9.3 APPLICATION FORM () A candidate may apply for re-evaluation on the prescribed fom, alongwith the original DMC & the requisite fee, within 15 days ofthe declaration of the result orthe dispatch of the Detail Marks Card (DMC) to the Department whichever is later. () University will not be responsible for postal delay in receipt of the form by the candidate. () Application fom once submitted may be withdrawn on written request in respect of one or all papers applied for re-evaluation proceeded that the answer-books have not been sent to fhe re-evaluator. No fee refund, however, will be permissible under such a situation. () A student can apply for re-evaluation, who hbas obtained more than 20% and less than 70% marks in particular theory paper excluding sessional/ intermal marks. Note:In case of online procedure, candidstes can apply for re-evaluation through his/her login portal within 15 days from the declaration of result on the portal. If online option is available, then ofline mode of submitting the application shall not be considered. 9.4FEE (DEPOSIT & REFUND) (i) The re-evaluation fee shall be as prescribed per answer book by the University from time to time. (i) Refund of fee will be admissible only in the following cases: a. 50% of the paid in case the application form is rejected being time bared. b. 100% when re-evaluation is not possible due to some administrative/technical reason. airaexphation) Assistan 36

[PAGE 37]
(ii) 100% when in case the candidate withdraws his/her application for re-evaluation due to the reason that his/her result has been revised due to rechecking of marks but before the re- evaluation 9.5 AWARD OF RE-EVALUATION MARKS/SCORE S.No Re-evaluated result: When increase/decrease is more than Answer books to be sent to the second re- 15% of the maximum marks of the paper concerned. scores out of the original examiner and both the re-evaluator will be considered for the declaration of re-evaluation Result. If the difference in original marks and the marks of 1 re-evaluator and 2w re-evaluator are same, in such type of cases keeping in the interest of the candidate the average of two highest scores out of the original examiner'and both the re-evaluators to be given. (u) In cases, afier re-evaluation the grade of a candidate remains unchanged, the increase/deerease' in marks, if any, will not be shown on the Detailed Marks Card. However, the original re-evaluated marks will be shown in the Resuit sheet. The final result ofre-evaluation favourable or not will be binding upon the candidate and subject to above provisions it will supersede the original score/result. () The candidate should plan their future programme of taking examinations/ admissions in accordance with their original result already communicated by the University ti it is actually supersede by the re-evalustion result. The University wil not take any responsibility of any consequences arising out of the delay in completion of the process of re-evaluation and declaration of re-evaluated result. The University shall also not be responsible if the re-evaluation result of any candidate delayed or some mistake/ discrepancy is found in the original evaluation/ re-evaluation of the answer book. (iv) If a candidate who has fiailed or earns compartment/re-appear in a paper(s) and has applicd for re-evaluation but his/her result of re-evaluation is not declared before the next cexamination and he/she appear in the next examination in the paper(s) in which he/she had 37 Asislant Registr (Examination)

[PAGE 38]
failed, the better of two scores “reappear score’ or “re-evaluation score’ would be taken into account. (v) In case of the re-cvaluation result has not been declared and the next supplementary/ re- appear examinations may be held candidates may apply for such re-appear examination without waiting for the re-evaluation result. (vi) On a written request his/her re-appear examination result will be kept pending till finalization of his/her re-evaluation result and she/he will be given the benefit of the best score out of the re-appear/supplementary exam and the re-evaluatcd score. (vii) If the answer-book(s) is/are lost after original evaluation and is/are not traceable for re- evalustion on acount of any reason, the candidate concermed will be offered re- examination in that paper at next examination provided he/she has already obtained pass marks in that paper. If, however, the candidate does not want re -examination his/her previous result may stand unchanged. No re-examination fee shall be charged from a candidate who opts for re-examination under this clause. Assistant Re anation) 38

[PAGE 39]
Chapter-10 General Rules for Examinations 10.1 The University shall bold examinations for swarding Degrees, Diplomas or Certificates in such branches of knowledge as the University may determine from time to time. 10.2 At the end 'of each semester or at specified periods, there shall be an examination wberein candidates shall be examined in the courses studied by them in that semester. Each semester examination shall be designated as First Semester Examination, Second Semester Examination, Third Semester Examination and so on. 10.3 () In case of UG Programmes, the examinations for odd semesters will normally be held in November/DecembepJanuary and for even semesters in Apri/May/June on such dates as may be fixed by the Controller of Examinations as per the Academic Calendar provided by the University. Note: During final year of the UG programme, that examinations of last two semesters shall be conducled in November/December/January and also in April/May/June. () In case of PG programme, the examination for all semesters will nomally be held in November/ December/January and also in April/May/June on such dates as may be fixced by the Controller of Examinations as per the Schedule provided by the University. (ili) The dates (s) of commencement of examinations as well as the last dalte (s) for the receipt of examination forms and fees shall also be notified by the Controller of Examinations to the concemed University Teaching Departments and affiliated Institutions. 10.4The course ofthe study and the subjects of examinations shall be as approved by the Skill Council from time to time. The medium ofinstructions and Examination shall ordinarily be English except or otherwise specified by the Skll Council. The question papers will be set in English, expect or otherwise specified by the board of studies concermed and approved by the Skill Council. Every candidate shall be examined in the subjccts as laid dows in the syllabus approved by te Skll Council from time to time. There is a Credit based System ofEvaluaftion in the University. The credits for each subject as also the contaet hours per week will be mentioned in the scheme of studies approved by the Skill Counil. AsgistantRegigtur(Examination) 39

[PAGE 40]
10.5 The students shall be automatically eligible for promotion to the next semester provided he/she fulflls the other essential eligibility criterion for promofion as mentioned in the Ordinance. A candidate, who is not able fo pass the academic programme/course within a maximum period speeified in the ordinance from the date ofhis/her admssion, shall lose the right to pursue the programme, In exceptional cases, imercy chance can be given by the Vice -Chancellor to a candidate if he/she applies in writing with fe as prescribed by the compelent auhority 10.6 Students shall not be eligible for admission to a course of study for an examination unless they have passed the qualifying examination of this University or any other examination recognised by this University as equivalent thereto as decided by the Equivalence Commitee, and possesses such further qualifications, f any, as may be presecribed by the Ordinance. The eligibility list/cut list for admission to an examination shall be on the prescribed formal, accompanied by the requisite fee so as fo reach the University by the dates fixed for the purpose through the Director/Principal oflnstitute or the Chairpcrson of the dept. in the University as the case may be. 10.8 A candidate, who has once submitted his/her exaimination form for an cxaminatioe along with the requisite foe, shall not be permitted to withdraw the application from on his/her own accord and claim refund of the examination fe. 10.9 If a candidate for any University Exannination owes any dues to the Uaiversity on any account or his/her college on any account and fails to pay the dues or bas in his/her possession any book, apparatus, or other property belonging to the University or his/her college, or any kit ete., and fails to return the same, the Controller of Examinations on receipt of such a report from fhe Principal of a college or, the Chairperson of a University Teaching DeptiChief Warden/Librarian/ Superintendent Workshop or any otber office may withbold or authorise the witholding of the admission card of the candidate or if the adnission card has already been issued, suspend the order of admission to examination till all such dues have been paid or such property has been relumed by the candidate. 10.10 The Controller of Examinations may withhold the pemission granted to any candidate by some incidental mistake or omission who was not eligible to sppear at any University examinatioe, even though an admission card had bcen issued and produced by him/her before the Superintendent of the Examination Centre or he/she may have appeared in one or more papers at the examination, and to ,cancel the result. Asistan(pination) 40

[PAGE 41]
10.11 Unless otherwise provided, a person who: - () has already passed an examination ofthat programme ofthis or any other Uaiversity shall not be permitted to re-appear in the examination of the same programme or a corresponding examination. (ii) is a candidate for an examinations in full subjects under a programme of this University can not simultaneously read for or appear at another examination under another programme of this Uaiversity or any another University/Board as a full time candidate. This bar shall not apply to a candidate appearing in an exanination of the University for efqns [RuoPpe Jo 0 3nsal/uorsAP Jo jusuarodum o 30 suoded eadde-a/Rused This bar shallalso not apply to a candidate who has completed the course during stipulated duration and the examination of those courses is not beld in tine due to unavoidable reasons. 10.12 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Ordinance, the Skill Council in the case of (a) a foreign scholar who in nof of Indian domicile; or (b) a person who is not an Indian National; or (c) a person of Indisn origin studying in a foreign country shall have power to admit him/her to any class ofthe concerned University teaching departments or a college afiliated of this University for which he/she is considered fit on the recommendation of the Equivalence Committee. 10.13 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Ordinance, the Skill Council in order to avoid hardship to a candidaste shall have power to relax any requirement ofthe ordinance for any examination while considering the irregular admissions for regularisation where the mistake is primarily on the part ofthe Institution or the University. Each and every case of such nature wi be considered by the Skill Council on merits. 10.14 The Controller of Examinations may withhold the result of any candidate who by an act of omission or commssion might be found to be guilty of either contravening the provisions of the Act, the Statutes, fhe Ordinances or the Regulations or of non-compliance thereof or any court orders or for any other cause which, in the opinion of the Contrler of Examinations, might warrant such as action. Assistant Begistar(Examination) 41

[PAGE 42]
10.15 The Vice-Chancellor shall have the power to quash the result of a candidate afler it has been declared if, (ii) he/she is disqualified for using unfair means in the examinations: or (iia mistake is found in his/her result; or (iv) he/she is found ineligible to appear in the cxamination. 10.16 A candidate whose answer-book is lost after it has been received by the Centre Superintendent ofthe examination, and who, but for this answer book, would have either passed in the examination or is likely to be placed under compartment/ re-appear, shall unless he/she opts re-examination, on a date fo be fixed by the Controler of Examinations be deemed to have obtained in (hal paper marks equal to the marks obtained by him/her in the other tbeory paper of the same subject and if there was no other tiheory paper in that subject or ifthere were more than two theory papers in that subject, marks equal to the average of the marks obtained by him/ber in other theory papers of fhe programme of that very senester. However, if the answer book (s) is/are lost afer original evaluation and is/are not traceable for re- evaluation on account of any reason, the candidate concermed will be offered re-examination in that paper at next examination provided heshe has already obtained pass marks in that paper. If, bowever, the candidate does not want re -exanination his/her previous result may stand unchanged. No re- examination fee shall be charged for candidate who opts for re-examination under this Clause. Ifthere is a dispute as to whether a candidate's answer-book was duly received or not, the findings of the Controller of Examinations subjet to confinmation by the Vice-Chancellor, shall be final. 10.17 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Ordinance/Regulation, the Skill Council shall have power in the case of all examinations hcld by the University to hold an additional examination in the same year for special reasons to be recorded. 10.18 In case of any ambiguity/dispute regarding interpretation of these rules or any other matter relalted to the examination which is aof covered under these rules, the decision of Vice - Chancellor shall be final. 10.19 Regarding any legal dispute, thejurisdiction lies with district courts, at Palwal. Asistant Fegistier(Ekamination) 42

[PAGE 43]
Chapter-11 Grading System and Evaluation of Performance 11.1 EVALUATION, TABULATION AND DECLARATION OF RESULTS There sball be centralized evaluation of answer books for which schedules shall be notified in each Senester. The CoE shall arrange for the Evaluation Centre(s) and a Centre In-Charge for the same. 11.1.2 Principal / Director of the institute / Dean of the university or any professor / senior faculty recommended by the Dean shall be the centre in-charge. 1113 The CoE shall appoint the superintendent and one clerk for evaluation centre. The coordinator shall be responsible for the smooth conduct of evaluation and maintained the record for the same. The Centre in-charge shall provide all the facilities for keeping all Answer Books of the University Examinations in the safe custody to the superintendent. 1115 Answer Books offthe University Examinations will be kept in safe custody at the Evaluation Centre(s) and the superintendent will issuc the answer books to the concem examiners on the dates and timings specified by the CoE. 11.1.6 The Evaluation work bas to be completed by all assigned examiners within the specified dates. 11.3.7 The Examincers shall submit the duly completed Tabulation Sheet and Grade Sbeet for fhe particular Course(s) to the superintendent. 11.18 The Tabulators, assigned by the CoE in consultatios with the HODs cocerned shall check and compile the Tabulation Sheet of all Courses for the particular semester examination pertaining to a specific Programme. The compiled Tabulation Sheet will be submitted to the CoE. 11.19 The COE shall arrange to compile and maintain all the Tabulation Sheets and an aggregated Tabulation Records with the SGPA and CGPA awarded to each student for each semester examination for a specific Program. The results ofthe examinations will be declared and published by the COE after due approval of the Vice Chanccllor. The results so deelared shall be placed before the Board of Examinations for information in ensuing meeting. 11.1.10 The Grade Sheets shall be issued by the Examination Department on the dates anmounced by the CoE. The Examination Branch will keep the evaluated answer sheets of the semester examination for at least one year. 113 Distribution Marks 112.1 Theory courses: There will be two components of examination intermal & extermal 1122 Every Course will have marks as per the scheme of the programme. 11.33 Course may have both practical as well theory component as per the scheme in such cases 50% marks will be assigned to theory and 50% mark to the practical exam as stated in the scheme witb its credits. Assistaneamination) 43

[PAGE 44]
11.24 In case of theory examinations, the 70% will be awarded on the basis of extemal examination and 30% will be awarded on the basis of continuous intermal assessment as below: (a) 10% of the total marks allocated to the attendance (b) 5% of the total marks allocated to tbe class perfomance (c) 5% of the total marks allocated to the presentation (d) 10% of the total narks allocafed to class test For example: Internal marks distribution for theory examination: - Intermal Attendance Perfomance Presentation Total Marks (Assignment Class test Marks (marks) 30% 10% 5% (marks) 10% (marks) Out of 100 30 10 10 Out of 50 15 2.5 2.5 11.25 In case of practical the 30% will be awarded on the basis of exiermal examination and 70% will be awarded on the basis of continuous intemal assessment as below: (a) 10% of the total marks allocated to the allendance. (b) 20% of the total marks allocated to the class perfomance. (0) 10% of the total marks allocated to the presentation. (d) 10% of the total marks allocated to mid-term viva. (e) 10% of the total marks allocated to the file works. (f) 10% of the fotal marks allocated to the final intermal vivs at the tine For example of submission of files at the end of semester. Internal marks distribution for practical examination: - Midter File Attendan Class Presentati Allotte Intem work al Perfoman ce on End al Marks Marks viva ce Marks (Marks) Total Mark Marks 70% 10% 20% 10% Sem 10% 10% 10% Out of 70 10 20 10 10 100 10 Out of 35 10 50 Assistant Begistx (Examination) 44

[PAGE 45]
11,2.6 In casc of practical the 30% will be awarded on the basis of extemal examination and 70% wil be awarded on the basis of continuous internal assessment as below: (a) 30% of the total marks allocated to the attendance (b)-20% of the total marks allocated to the performance of OJT @5% at the end of every month including presentation (c) 1 10% of the total marks allocated to the mid-tcrm viva (6) 10% of the total marks allocated to report and viva at the end of the OJT (e) 10% of the total marks allocated to the final internal viva at the time of submission of files at the end of semcster For example Marks distribution of OJT/ Project Integrated Training / Industrial Project OJT Perfomance Marks (20%) Mid Report and End Afier Affer Attendance Affter Intemal Alltted ferm 3rd 4th Ist 2nd Marks Viva term Total Marks 70% Month 30% month month month viva Marks (5%) (5%) (5%) (5%) (marks) (10%) 10% Jo no 35 245 17.5 17.5 105 17.5 17.5 35 350 11.3 THE CREDIT SYSTEM 11.3.1 The University has introduced credit system of study for all the Under Graduate and Post Graduate programme for all thc students admitted from the Academic Year 2017-18. The prominent features ofthe creditsystem are the proces of continuous evaluation ofa student's 11.3.2 Each Academic Program has a certain number of credits which describe its weightage. A student's perfomance is measured by the number of credits that he/she has completed Satisfactorily. A minimum grade point average is required to be maintained for satisfactory progress. 11.3.3 Each subject (component) has a certain number of credits which rellect its weightage and is normally decided on the basis of effective contacts hours. It is mentioned in the scheme of studies and examinations. 11.3.4 The semester examination for the odd semesters shall ordinarily be beld in the month of December/January and for the even semesters in the month of May/lune, on such dates as may be fixed by University authority. The concemed teacher/ course coordinator should ensure that 100% syllabus is covered in each subject before the Semester Examination. 45

[PAGE 46]
11.3.5 A faculty member shall be appointed as a course-coordinator by the HOD ofthe Faculty who shall have the full responsibility for conducting the minor test, coordinating the work of evaluation with other faculty members involved in the course and awarding of grades. A common paper will be set for the minor test of the common courses. perfomance ofthe student evaluated throughout the semester. The syllabus ofthc minor tests will be what is covered in that particular term. The Semcster Examination will be based on the entire syllabus. 11.3.7 The marks/grades will be displayed on the notice board of the department by the Coordinator / HOD of Faculty before forwarding it to the Examination Branch. 11.3.8 The HOD of the Faculty shall forward the awards to the Examination Branch within a weck after the semester endsand examination process starts.The evaluated answer sheets ofminor tests are to be kept by the Examination Branch for at least one year. 11.4 GRADING SYSTEM For the award of grades ina subjcct, all component-wise evaluation shall be done in marks. The marks would be converted to grades as per the guidelines given below: Award of Grades Based on Absolute Marks 11.4.1 The University will follow system of grading for all (irrespective of no. of students) based on absolute marks (after applying moderation ifany) as given below: Table: Grade and Grade point Range of Marks Grade Grade points Remark 00[04 06 10 Juspussino 80 to 89 A+ Excellent 70 to 79 Very good 60 to 69 B+ Good 55 to 59 46 to 54 Average 40 to 45 Pass ≤40 Fail Ab ABSENT 11.4.2 A student obtaining Grade F shall be considered failed and will be required to reappear in the examination. (Ekatnination) 46

[PAGE 47]
Note 1. Pass Grade is Grade P and higher grades 2. Grade F is Fail grade. "F" Grade 11.4.3 The F grade denotes poor performance, iLe. failing a subject (or subject component), A studeat has to reappear in the semester examination only, in which he/she obtains“F*’ grades, until a passing gade is obtained, within the stipulated time of completion of that programme. ‘Ab’ Grade Ifany student, who is otherwise eligiblefor appearing in the semesterexamination as per the ordinance, but he/she is unable to appear in the semester examination then he /she willbe awarded *Ab’ grade, The candidate will be allowed to take up the examination next time along with regularstudents and be /she will be awarded the grade as per grade system explained above. AP/AF Grade These grades are awarded to qualifying/Non-Credit subject(s) (as per scheme supplied by concerned departments),. The candidate will not be eligible for award of degree without qualifying thesc courses. Continuous Absence Ifa student is continuously absent from the Department for more than 4 days without intimation to the Programme Coordinator / HOD of the faculty, his/her name will be struck off from the roll of department, The re-admission shallnot be allowed to the candidate during the same academic session. "X* Grade This grade is awarded for incomplete Project work as per guidelines given below and will be converted to a regular.grade on the completion of the Projcct work and its evaluation. Chairman/Chairperson/chairperson on the recommendation of his/her supervisor. A student who has been awarded 'X' grade shall be required to fomally register for the next semester and pay the requisite fee. “X' grade will be awarded in exceptional circumstances beyond student 's /supervisor's control. Normally, the following grounds may be considered for the award of*X* grade: (0) Technical reasons/grounds such as Supervisor/equipment not being availablec. (9) Any other feason to the satisfaction of supervisor. 11.5 Evaluation of Performance The performance of a student will be evaluated in tenms of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the completed semesters at any point of time. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades, except Induction /audit courses, obtained inall completed semesters. 11.5.1 Regarding evaluation of performance. 47 Assistant Restres (Scamination)

[PAGE 48]
Computation of SGPA and CGPA: Following procedure to compute the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) may be adopted: The SGPA is the ratio of sum ofthe product ofthe number of credits with the grade points scored by a student in all the course components taken by a student and the sum of the number of credits of all the courses undergone by a student, i.e SGPA (Si) = (Ci x Gi) / ECi where Ci" is the number of credits of the ith course component and *Gi is the grade point scored by the student in the ith course component. Vaos Z (Total credits eamed in a subject x Grade points out of total marks in a concerned sulject (Total credits eamed in a subject) except audit courses The CGPA is also calcuiated in the same manner taking into account all the courses undergone by a student over all the semesters of a programme, i.e. CGPA = (Ci x Si) / Ci Where Si' is the SGPA of the ith semester and Ci is the total number of credits in that semester. The SGPA and CGPA shall be rounded off to 2 decimal points and reported in the transcripts. Each successful candidate shall be issued a copy of the result card on having passed the semester examination. Regarding Conversion of CGPA into Marks The CGPA if multiplied by 9.5 will give the equivalent marks in %age. Candidates who pass all the prescribed subjects forall the semesters, but obtained: - Less than CGPA of 5.26Pass class (i) 5.26 CGPA<6.32 2nd Division (m) 6.32 CGPA<7.91st Division (iv) CGPA of 7.9 or more 1st Division with Honours provided that they have passed all the semester examinations in single sitting within the normal period of course and without reappear in any paper throughout the programme. 11.6 CERTIFICATION AND AWARDS Award of Certificate, Diploma or Advanced Diploma, graduate and post graduate as the case may be, would depend on acquisition of requisite credits as prescribed in the guidelines and not on the duration of the calendar time spent in pursuing the course. 11.6.1 The certificate for skilling component would be awarded by the Sector Skill Counil in terms of NSQF level either singly or jointly with the institution concermed and the general education grades will be certified along with the skill component in terms of certificate/ diploma awarded by the institution. 11.6.2The affiliated colleges may itselfaward diploma/cerificate underits own sealand signature afer writen authorization from the affliating University. 48 Ecamination)

[PAGE 49]
However, the college should mention the name ofaffliating University and name of the scheme on the award. The affiliating University should give writen authorization to the college(s) running the scheme of community colleges to award certificate(s)/diploma(s). 11.6.3 On completion of Diploma (Min 60 credits) as per scheme student will be eligible to seek admission into Advanced Diploma in a community college or second year of B,Voc degree, Similarly, on completion of Advanced Diploma (120 Credits), a student is eligible for admission to third year of B.Voc. Degree. 11.7 Examination fee and other fees: 11.7.1 Each student of UG & PG courses (Main & Re-appear) who are eligible to appear in the exam shall required to pay the examinations fee as per details given below: - 1. Students of UG and PG main Examination = Rs. 1000 per semester. 2. R e-appear students = Rs. 1000 per semester 11.7.2 Re-appear candidates: A candidate who has been placed under re-appear in any examinations of this university shall submit examinations form on the prescribed format along with required fee to the University through the Chairman of the concerned Department or Director/Principal of affiliated institute / Dean so as to reach in Controller of Examinations office by the date fixed for this purpose. The examination of re-appear, in odd /even semester shall be held with odd/even semester main examination. Late Fee Rs.200/- Upto one week from last date With permission of Controller of Examination Rs.500/- next one week -do Late fec for accepting Rs 2000 examination form 30 days before With the permission of commencement the of examination. Exceptional Hon'ble Vice Chancellor . days before upto 15 the commencement of Examination. 11.7.3 The Controller of Examinations/Vice-Chancellor shall have the power to grant extension of date of submission or condone delay in receipt of a thesis/dissertation/project report, for an examination, PG Programmes (NSQF Level 9) other than Ph.D. as under: Upto one month Rs.100/- Controller of Examination Beyond one month and Rs.500/- -do- upto two months Beyond one month and Rs 1000/- -Do- 49 Ascistanttegihitiar (Examiratinn)

[PAGE 50]
upto two months Beyond two month upto On the basis of recommendation of Rs 2000/- the joint committee of COE and three month Dean Beyondthree months but Rs 5000/- less than 4 months By the Vice Chancellor Late fee as prescribed in each case will be chargeable. Provided that if a candidate fails to submit the dissertation even during the extended period, he/she will be considered to have absented in the dissertation paper and his/her result will be declared accordingly. 11.7.4 Refund of fees: The examination fee to be taken at the time of admission once paid by the candidate shall not be refunded/ adjusted for any course or the subsequent examination under any circumstances, Every candidate shall ensure his eligibility for particular, examination before submitting the admission form. 50

[PAGE 51]
Chapter-12 Rules to award Gold Medal One University Gold Medal shall be awarded for each discipline instead of each programme run by the University to ameritorious candidate ie, one medal in each Certificate, Diploma, D.Voc, B.Vocs, M.Voes Programmes. The following shall be the criteria for award of Gold Medal: 12.1 The minimum requirement of CGPA for a candidate to be eligible for award of Gold Medal shall be 6.32 (1st division). 12.2 a) The candidate must have passcd the examination in the regular period of the programme in first attempt/sitting semester and year wise ie, there has been no reappear in any subject (s)/ course (s) during the period ofhis/ her study. However, if a candidate passes the subject(s) afler re-evaluation of the main examination then it shall be treated as single attempt, Such re- evaluated marks shall be considered for ascertaining the award of Gold Medal. b) The candidate who got re-appear on account of absence in any paper/subject in exam will not be eligible for award of gold medal. 12.3 For those Programmes where there is a requiremient of thesis/disscrtation for the partial fulfilment ofthe degree, the candidates who have submitted their thesis/dissertation up to 30 of June of the final academic year of their studies shall be considered for the award of Gold Medal. 12.4 The final decision for award of Gold Medal shall be taken after completion of re-evaluation process of the final semester examination in that particular programme. 12.5 The candidate who has secured highest CGPA among the eligible candidates (As per the criteria) shall be awarded the Gold Medal. 12.6 In case, two or more candidates have secured the same CGPA, the following criteria, in order of preference, shall be followed to decide the Gold Medal. a) The candidate who has secured higher/highest CGPA by considering up to 3 decimal of CGPA shall stand higher in rank. Astistant Registar (Examination) 51

[PAGE 52]
b) The candidate with highest actual marks/scores obtained in final year shall stand higher in rank. c) The candidate with highest actual marks/scores obtained in theory papers only of the end semester examinations of the final year shall stand higher in rank. 12.7 Gold Medal shall not be awarded for those programme where strength of class is less than 10 at the time of admission in 1 semester/1 year. It is further clarificd that the strength means the number of students registered in the class. 12.8 The speifications of the medal will be approved by the Vice-Chancellor. Assistant'R 52

[PAGE 53]
Chapter-13 Redressal of students Grievances regarding Question Papers, Grace Marks and Provision of Amanuensis 13.1 Students' Grievances Committee There is a provision of Students' Grievances Committee in the University regarding end semester theory examinations. The complaint regarding end semester theory examinations, if any shall be submitted by the student(s) through Chairperson ofthe Department/ Director/Principal of the Institution within 7 days of the examination to the office of Controller of Examination. The committee of the following shallexamine and submit the report with specific recommendation regarding re - examination or award of grace marks with justification to the Controller of Examinations within 7 days. The Vice- Chancellor shall be the final authority to take decision on the recommendations of the committee: - I. Dean of Faculty Chaiman 2. Chairperson of the Department offering the course Member 3. Nominee of Vice-Chancellor 4 Contrller of Examinations or his/ber nominee Member 13.2 Grace Marks 1% of total marks of the scheme of a semester of those theory courses/ subjccts (excluding Practical/Seminar/ Projec/Dissertation etc.) whose examinations are conducted in the end of the semester ie. May/June and November/December shallbe awarded as grace marks to passin one or more courses/ subject of that semester. This provision shall be implemented w.e.f. December 2020 examinstions for allacademic programs. () Special Sessional Examinatioms Students enrolled in final semester and those who have completed their normal duration of academic programs shall be allowed a special sessional examinations of weightage 40% of the maximum sessional marks. This examination will be conducted by the department /eollege/ institution only for those students who have scored lessthan 40% marks in the sessional and gotre-appear due to deficiency of marks. Out of total awards secured by the candidate in this special sessional examination only the marks required to pass the course/ subjeetshallbe considered towards the final score. This clause shall 53 Assistant Begirtyaf (Bxcamination)

[PAGE 54]
be applicable on all academic programs including the students/ candidates who take exit in dual degree program. 13.3 Provision of Amanuensis The guidelincs for conducting witen examination for person with Disabilities issued by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Departmenf of Disability Affairs, Govt. of India, New Delhi vide it's F.No. 16 -110/2003-DD.II dated 26/02/2013 are followed by this University. The amanuensis shall be allowed in case of physically disabied/ bandicapped candidate who are either blind or permanentiy disabled from writing with their own hands. The Controller of Examinations shall arange for the appointment of an amanuensis and infom the Superintendent of Centre concerned. The amanuensis shall be a student of lower grade of cducation than the candidate. The superintendent shall arrange for a suitable room for such a candidate and appoint a special supervisor for bim/her. The fees in this regard, if any, shall be deposited by the candidate with the University as per existing practice. jamination) 54

[PAGE 55]
Chapter-14 Guidelines for Inspection and Supply of Photocopy of Evaluated Answer Sheets 14.] A candidate will be pemmitted to sce hisher evaluated/ re-evaluated answer book(s) for identification only, if his/her application alongwith prescribed fees per answer book reaches fhe University within 15 days of the date of dispatch ofDetailed Marks Card. 14.2These.rules may be called the Shri Vishwakama Skill University, Dudhola, Palwal (Supply of Photo Copies of Evaluated Answer Books) Rules, 2020. () -A candidate who has appeared in a University examination shall be entitled to apply for of the declaration of his/her result, No such application form in this behalf shall be entertained by the University afer the expiry of the stipulated period on any pretext or ground whatsoever. (i) A candidate, who is desirous of applying for supply of photocopy/copies of answer book, shall have to download the prescribed application form from the website ofthe University and submit the same to fhe designated officer within the.stipulated period duly recommcnded'by the Chairperson of concemed Deptt. or Director/Principal of concemed Affliated Institute. (ii) No application for supply of photocopy/ copies of answer book(s) shall be entertained unless it is accompanied by fees as may be prescribed by the skllcouneil from time to time, with the University Cashier or by Demand Draft drawn in favour of the Registrar, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudbola, Palwal. However, no such application form shall be entertained unless it is sent through speed post to the Secrecy Branch, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudhola or deposited with him personally on all working days within the stipulated period. (μt) Notwithstanding the provision contained in rule (ii) & (iv) above, no photocopy/copies of print/clectronic media for display or for commercial use or for any other purpose whatsoever. (v) Any dispute as to whether any such application form has been received within the time limit prescribed by the University or not shall be decided by the Vice-Chancellor, whose decision shall be final. The university shallbe liable to provide photocopy/eopies of the answer book(s) within 30 days after the receipt of the application form and undertaking unless it is not possible to do so for any unforeseable reason, beyond the control ofthe University. In such a case, the University 55 Assistant'fRegisra(Excamination)

[PAGE 56]
shall inform the applicant explaining the reason for delay or for it's inability to provide the photocopy/copies of the answer book(s) not beyond 45 days ofthe receipt of the application form. (vii) No photocopy/ copies of the answer book(s) shall be given to the applicant unless all identiicationmarks, such as thename ofthe Examiner/Evaluator orany otherofficialassociated with the examination is properly eclipsed/ defaced beyond recognition. (ix) The applicants shall have to furmish an undertaking in the prescribed format (Available in the University website) that neither he/she nor any other person acting on his/her behalf, shall challenge the standard of evaluation or in any manner, misuse or allow to be misused the photocopy/ copies of the answer book(s). It shall, however, be open to them to point out discrepancies in totalling of marks, unmarked questions or part thereof or similar other error, if any, within 10 days of the receipt of photocopy/copies of answer book(s). (x) The applicant shall be entitled to seek re-checking of the marks on the basis of the pbotocopyf copies ofthe answer book(s). However, norepresentation or request whatsoever other than tbose relating correction intotalling crror or umarked question(s) or part thereof shall be entertained. In order to remove any doubt/ambiguity. Itis further provided that no request for re-evaluation of answer books shall be entertained under these rules, under any eircumstance. (xi) Notwithstanding any other provision contained in any part of the University Rules, the decision taken by the competent authority of the University in respect of marks/grade awarded shall be final and binding on the candidate concerned. AssistantBetarz xamination) 56

[PAGE 57]
Chapter-15 Guidelines for Improvement Examinations If a candidate has completed his/ber degree and he/she wants fo improve his/her grade, he/she may be allowed to improve by depositing the requisite fee as per the Umiversity Rules, He/she is allowed to appear in at the most half of the theory papers only of a semester along with the regular candidates of that semester and the sessional (intermal assessment) part will be retained. Such opportunity of improvement shall be given only during the extended duration of academic programme applicable. If the improved CGPA is less than the original, then the original will be retained. AssistantRogtstiar(Examination) 57

[PAGE 58]
Appendix-1 EXAMINATIONS CONDUCTED BY THIS UNIVERSITY (μupto July, 2020) Certificate Program Name Certificate Folk Art Banchari D.Voe and Diploma D.Voc in Industrial Electronics D.Voc in Mechnical-Manufacturing Diploma Ethnic Foods & Sweets Processing) Diploma (Hospitality-Ethnic Foods & Sweets Processing) Diploma Piping Technology Diploma German Language Diploma Folk Art Banchari Diploma Production-Press Tool and Die Maintenance & Stamping B.Voc-Bachelor of Vocation B.Voc Robotics & Automation 2018-21 B.Voc. Roboties & Automation 2019-22 B.Voc Automotive Manufacturing ( Hero) B.Voc Automotive Mechatronics ( Hero) B.voc Mechanical Manufacturing (Hero) 90 B.Voc A. Mechatronics 2019-2022 B.voc Machincal Manufacturing (Anand group) 10 B.voc Machincal Manufacturing ( Senior India) 11 B.Voc. Mechanical-Manufacturing ( SKH) 12 B.Voc in Automotive Mechatronics( Captive ) 13 B.Voc. Automotive Component Manufacturing 14 B.Voc Management Financial services 15 B.Voc. BPM & Analytics 58 Asistalt aminaHon)

[PAGE 59]
16 B.Voc. Management BPM And Analytics 17 B.Voc. Tool and Die Manufacturing 18 B,Voc. Production Tool and Die Manufacturing 19 B.Voe MLT Medical laboratory Technology 20 B.Voc Solar Technology-Quadsun Solar 21 B.Voce Public Services 22 B.Voc. (Agriculture) Master of Vocation M,Voc Management Entrepreneurship M.voc Management Banking & Finance M,.Voce Robotics and Automation M.Voe Management HRM PG. Diploma PG Diploma Aero Space Structural Design PG Diploma Public Health PG Diploma In Geo Informatics AssistantRe tgr(dmination) 59

[PAGE 60]
Appendix-2 1.1.1REMUNERATION FOR CONDUCT OF END-SEMESTER THEORY EXAMINATION Designation/Head Rates of remuneration Norms & Remarks No. Faculty Examination Rs. 3000 per semester One per Faculty for an academic Coordinator (faculty Nominated by the Dean from the respected year. Common for both theory and practical Examination Faculty) Co-coordinator for each Rs. 2000 semester One per Faculty for an academic Department (Nominated by year.Common for both theory and the Dean from the respected practical Examination Faculty) Rs 3000 upto 100 students Rs 4000 upto 200 students Rs 5000 upto 300 students Superintendent-in-chief Rs 6000 upto 400 students Director/principal/Dean Rs. 7000 above 400 affiliated college/ of the University students per semester Institute Rs. 250 per session One for each centre Centre Supdt. (One session for opening and one session for Rs.200 per session winding up.the centre) Dy. Centre Supdt. One for each centre Rs. 150 per session One for every 30 candidates and Asst. Supdt /lnvigilator one additional invigilator (Reliever) when no. of candidates excceds 100 Rs.250 per member per session plus TA/DA as per Convener/ Member Flying One Convener and three Squad University rules members of flying Squad Rs.250 per session (for exam duration ie.3hrs.) One for one candidates Rs. 160 per session (one One per session for upto 300 Centre Clerk session for opening and one session for winding up the candidates. One additional beyond 300 10 Rs. 100 per session 00 puokaq [euogrppy Dafri One per sessioafor upto candidates Rs. 100 per session 250 candidates. One Additional beyond 250 Waterman Onepersession forupto Candidates 12 Rs. 100 per session 200 candidates. One Sweeper additional beyond 200 Candidates One per session for upto 13 200 candidates. Rs. 100 per session Additional beyond 200 Chowkidar/Security Guard Candidates One per session for upto 200 candidates. 14 Rs. 100 per session Attendant/Peon/Class IV additional beyond 200 Staff Peon attached to COE/ Candidates 60

[PAGE 61]
HOD/Departmental coordination of the University 15 Electrician Rs. 750 per semester maximum of Rs. 1500 One for each program Refreshment Rs. 25 per session Per staff only on duty 1.2REMUNERATION FOR CONDUCT OF END-SEMESTER PRACTICAL EXAMINATIONS Sr. No Deseription Courses Rates of remuneration Rs 25 per student, with a minimum amount of Rs.200/- each to both NSQF L1 L9 Labs examiner Project /OJT NS QF Level -5 Rs. 30 per student Project/OJT NSQF Level -6 Rs. 30 per student Project /OJT NSQF Level -7 Rs. 40 per student NSQF Level -8 Project / OJT Rs. 50 per student NSQF Level -9 Projeet /OJT Rs. 60 per student 3. Waterman Rs. 100 per day Rs. 100 per day 4. Sweeper Office Attendant/helper Rs. 100 per day Lab Assistant/Jr. Tech. Assistant Rs. 10 per candidate One or more staff can (JTA) or any other category of lab students in group be engaged if no. of Post carying the same grade- exceeds 30 7. As per the actual bills Tea, snacks and lunch for Per staff only on duty (Both Intermal practical Examination subject to maximum of and exterpal examiners) Rs. 300 per examiner In addition to above the following Hotel Charges have also been approved - as per HCS TA/DA Rules 2018 Note For conducting the practical Examination, the Intermal Examiner and Extemal examiner be given the same remuneration The person otherwise performing the job of particular category in his/her office should only be engaged for the similar work in the conduct of the examinations. Any one engaged to perfom duties of a i.c. the category to which he/she belongs and not the higher category. The category of staff who are entitled for Lump sum remuneration will not be paid any extra For viva-voce, only one Assistant /elerk will be allowed. No remuneration will be paid to any one remuneration assisting in the conduct of viva- voce for a PhD programme Notes It is proposed that Lab / Projcct / OJT may be evaluated by a team consisting of one External Examiner, one Intermal Examiner and concemed Project Guide. The maximum 30 students can be evaluated by one extemal examiner in a day. () Extermal Examiner may be paid conveyance Charges as University Noms. () Refreshment Charges 耐Rs. 300/- per examiner /day for snacks and lunch only for Practical Examinations. AssistatRgtar (Eamination)

[PAGE 62]
1.3 SPOT EVALUATION CENTER END SEMESTER THEORY PAPERS Sr. No Desi gnation/Head Rates of remuneration Norms & Remarks Rs 2000 upto 1000 Answer books Rs 3000 upto 2000 Answer books Students Centre in-charge Rs 4000 upto 3000 Answer books Rs 5000 upto 4000 Answer books Rs. 6000 upto 5000 Answer books Rs. 7000 above 5000 Answer books Rs. 200 per day One for Subjected max. Rs 1000 upto 1000 each Answer books centre Maximum Superintendent / spot Rs 2000 upto 2000 Answer books Rs 3000/- per Coordinator (Centralized, if Students Centre any) Rs 3000 upto 3000 Answer books Rs 4000 upto 4000 Answer books Rs. 6000 upto 5000 Answer books Rs. 7000 above 5000 Answer books Thcory Examination Copy Maximum 40 copy Rs 25 for NSQF L1 to L9 Evaluation can be evaluated by an examiner in a Day Persons deputed for delivery of the question papers/bundles of A/books at Rs.300/- per day Nodal Centre/Exam. Centres Driver Rs.300/- per day . Clerk for Spot Evaluation Rs. 200 per day One for each Centre Peon Rs. 100 per day One for each Centre Notes: Independent teams/staff shall handle/operate the control room/centre respectively. () Timings for Evaluation shall be 3 hours slot with 2 sessions on all working days ie. 9:30 am to 1.00 pm and 2:00 pm to 5:30 pm with one-hour lunch break. () Answer sheet will be distributed to the evaluators in the first two hours (i.e. upto 12:00 noon and 4:00 pm) of starting of each session every day. (iv) Spot Evaluation Centre will run on all working days only. If required, it may also run on Saturday depending upon the quantum of answer sheets, the control room will remain closed on Sundays & Gazetted. (v) Holidays. Evaluation of Answer Seripts will be Min. 20 (UG) and 15 (PG) in -ep od os ntnxet o) oofqns pue uossos/aoqunu (vi) subject to evaluation of maximum 40 (UG)30 (PG) answer sheets per day on average. Asistant Reriker Truiination) 62

[PAGE 63]
However, Intermal Examiners shall be paid only, on Holidays only in emergency cases as approved by COE. (vi) The refreshment of Rs. 25/- per session per faculty/staff. 1.4 EVALUATION & PAPER SETTING WORK (THEORY) Paper Evaluation Charges Sr. Course Setting Re-Evaluation No. (Regular) Charges Charges Rs. 25 per answer Diploma/ D. Voe /B. Rs. 1000 per set Rs. 25 per answer book subject to a Voe/ M. Voe book subjcct to a minimum of Rs, 200 minimum of Rs. 200 Ph.D. Set For evaluation of theory answer books of Ph.D. Rs. 75 per answer book, minimum of Rs. 200/- Payment to Checking Rs. 25/- per hundred subject to a minimum of Rs. 25/- Assistant Extermal Question Paper Setters who submit the question papers through post, contingent expenditure of Rs. 100/- or actual charges (whichever is less) will be given in addition to the remuneration for setting up the question paper-only to the extermal examiners. 1.4.1Remuneration for Evaluation of Thesis/ Dissertation/Project Work/ Term Paper/ Training Report etc. per candidate: - Name of Course Rates Extemal Examiner Intermal Examiner M. Tech (Evaluation+ Viva Rs.200/-+100/-per dissertation/candidate witha Voce) maximum amount of Rs. 300/- Ph.D, Thesis Evaluation Rs. 2000/- per thesis ViVa-Voce Rs. 2000/- per Student 1.4.2 Rates of Remuneration of Scrutinizing the Examination results: subject to a minimum of Rs. 50/- 2. In the case of main results, the scrutiny shall be done by one Scrutinizer when the number of candidates is not more than 10 in an examination beyond which the result shall be scrutinized by two Scrutinizers. 3. In all the Result Later cases only one Scrutinizer will scrutinize the result upto 25 candidates at one sitting. 4. Deduction for each error of any type during scrutiny Rs. 5/- 1.4.3 Penalties in the case of Examiners and Checking Assistants to Examiners:

[PAGE 64]
1. Examiners Deduction in casc of delay in submission of result in theory and practical: An automatic deduction of Rs. 10/- per day of delay from the remuneration of Examiners to be made in case the awards are not received within the prescribed date as required under the rules. Provided that the Vice-Chancellor may condone the delay in any 2. Deduction in Case of Mistake Committed by the Examiners particular case. () Rs. 5/- per mistake, subject to maximum of Rs. 20/- (i) Rs. 5/-per page in case of wrong centurial series, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10/-J. 3. Deduction in the case of Checking Assistant to Single-Examiners Mistake in totalling Rs. 2/- per mistake Omission in evaluating a Rs. 2/- per mistake question or a part of question. Neglect of duty on other account Rs. 2/- per mistake For every minor mistake of detected by the office in his award list Rs, 2/- per mistake (out of Rs. 2/- deducted from remuneration, Re, I/- shall be paid to the office hand who detects the mistake). Note: 1. Separate fees willbe chargeable forthe verification desired to be sent to each Department/ University. 2. The verification will be mailed at the office expenses direct to the Department/ University 1.4.4 The duties shall, however, be mandatory for the University faculty and staff members and the remuneration for the examination related work assigned to University faculty and staffmembers, shall be decided by the Vice Chancellor with the consent of the Board of Management However, the faculty / staff members of the Examination Department of the University are not cligible for the remuneration mentioned above. 1.5 ENTRANCE EXAM/TEST Chief Superintendent/ Station Supdt.(if any) Rs. 2400/- lump-sum Centre Observer/Flying Squad Rs. 2200/- lump-sum Centre Superintendent Rs. 1900/-lump-sum Invisilator One for a strength of 24 candidates day ? Rs. 800/- ICentre Clerk One for two days @ Rs. 400/-per 64 Assisdn Registra (amination)

[PAGE 65]
Rs. 300/- per day (Not more than 8 persons for (Daftry, Peon, Wateman Cleaner, Chowkidar) whole centre with a strength of 240 candidates) ie. 2 persons for first 100 Class- IV Staff Candidates + one person for every additional 50 candidates or part thereof on the day of the Test. for Centre Preparation on a day before the test. Contingency Charges Rs. 750/- will be paid in lump-sum to the Centre observer. In case the Expenditure incurred exceeds Rs. 750/- under exceptional against vouchers for all the expenses. Building Rent # Rs. 300/- per centre only for non-Govt. Institutes Payment of Building Rent is to be made for each centre of each institute. Note: Flying Squad is entitled to use taxi/own vchicle on the day of exam as per Govt. rule. Notwithstanding the integrated nature of the course wherever it is spread over more than one academic year, the Ordinance in force at the time a student joins the course shall hold good only for the examination held during or at the end of the semester and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to debar the University from amending the Ordinance and the amended Ordinance, If any, shall apply to all students whether old or new. Asnation 65

[PAGE 66]
[NO EXTRACTABLE TEXT FOUND]


--- DOCUMENT: Notification for various Committees under DSW-2.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
• :a.- svsu SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY {State University enacted under the Government of Haryana Act 25, 2016) Plot No. 147, Sector - 44, Gurugram, E-mail: info.svsu@gmail.com DEPARTMENT OF STUDENTS' WELFARE Notification Ref.No. SVSU/DSW/2026/09 28.01.2026 With the approval of the Co1npetent Authority various cells, clubs, and con1mittees constituted for smooth functioning of the activities in the University. If required conveners may propose to allocate additional faculty for different activities/events time to time. Sr. Cell/Club No. 1 Youth Red Cross Committee 2 Cell for Differently Abkd Nature of Activities Coordination of activities specified under Youth Red Cross (YRC) Proposed Coordinator/Convener & Members Dr. Mani K. Singh, Skill Associate Professor Dr. Sohan Lal, Skill Instructor 1 Dr. Santosh, Skill Instruc_t_o_r ______ J To enable the students with Dr. Ravinder Kumar, Ski! I Associate I disabilities to overcome the Professor j challenges and to provide them Mr. Upkar Bhatia, Skill Instructor _____ -------t-r_e_.._qm_· r_ed_su ...... lp.......__po_rt_fi_o_r_th_e_ir__,g""-r_o_w_th_. __ --+-M_r_. Kr_i_sh_a_n....;...,_M_T_S,'--S_F_A_S_H ________ _ 3 NSS Cell Coordination of activities specified Dr. Nakul, Skill Assistant Professor under National Service Scheme Dr. Monika, Skill Assistant Professor (NSS) Dr. Sohan Lal. Skill rnstructor ·- - • - ---------1-'-----'-------------l------- ----- -- -- - • - -I NCC Cell Coordination of activities specified Dr. Bhawna Rooprai. Dy. OS\\' (Acri ,·i LiL·s) 1 i under National Cadet Corps (NCC) & Skill Assistant Professor Dr. Dalip Raina, Dy. DS W (Facilities) Ski II Assistant Professor --- ------+-----------:----:-------r-------------------- - 5 Technical To coordinate, organize and promote Dr. Sajan Wahi, Skill /\ssistant Professor 6 7 Club activities related to technical skills. Dr. Manish Kumar. Skill 1\ssistant Following are the suggested activities: Hakathon, Industrial problems and Innovation, Tinker m real life, Software skills, Robo wars, Code- Decode, Automation, competitions, workshops, any other related acti, ities Professor Mr. Santosh, Ski! I Instructor Mr. Pankaj Soni, Skill Instructor Mr. Ajit, Skill Instructor Dr. Sanjay Kumar Master Skill Instructor Mr. Jagbir, Master Skill Instructor Mr. Satish, Sr. Ski 11 Instructor --- -----+--- -- -- -~- - -- ---- --- To coordinate, orgarnze and promote Dr. Lalit Kumar Sharma. Deputy Registrar 1 Sports and Adventure Club Yoga Club activities related to sports and wellness. Dr. Dinesh Yadav, SAP, SFET Following are the suggested activities: Dr. Sunil Sharma, Skill /\ssistant Professor Indoor games, outdoor sports, Zumba, NJs. Anuraclha, Game Organizer university trips, coaching, any other Mr. Necraj Parashar, Network Administrato,· related activities Mr. Sandeep Kumar. Skill Instructor - - -------- - -- --- -- ------------- ----- ro coordirn,t ... ~ and plan the yoga sessions for the students and staf1' or the uni \"l!rsity and any other related acti\'itics. Dr. Ajay Kumar. SAP Mc1ti1cmatics Dr. Sohan Lal, Skill Instructor Dr. Manisha Vaid, SAP, SFASH Dr. Sachin Kumar, SAP. SFET

[PAGE 2]
- - ------ .-SI ·11 Assistant - -----,---- ---:- - anize - and promote -Dr. l([;lpana Mahcshwan, · <t · 8 Literary To coordmate, orgc . • • • l'k debate~. declamattons, Professor . Club act1v1t1es. t ~. . poetrv writing and Dr. Deepti, Skill Assistant Prolcssor group d1scuss1ons. • Sk'II I truclur • • _ ry writing, quiz Mr. Rahul Malik. Master 't ns recttallon shoit sto · d' OIT : teractive/lecturc sessions, etc. Mr. l3hupender, H tn I teer contests. m . 1 • 1\I • T I t • S'.,SU that help students to develop 111 t 1e1r tv' s. Son_1a, rans a 01, v • Mr. SanJcev Tayal, SYS U - 9 Cultural, literacy. Dr. Bijendcr, SAP SFMSR _ __ -· Planning and organizing the activities Dr. si,ruti Gupta, Skill Associate Dramatics or Theatre Club for promotion of cultural eve,~ts and Professor other related act1v1t1es. ~o owtt c = o • • • I~ ll 1g a1·, D1·. 11,:)••Ltl u11atia, Skill Assistant Prolcs~or the suggested activities: Dance, Song, Dr. Meenakshj Aggarwal, Skill Assistant Modeling/Fashion show, teachers' day, Professor farewell, fresher's p~t ty , cultural Dr. Aanchal, Skj ll Assistant Professor competitions, etc. rvts. Meenakshi Koul. Senior Skill lnstructor Dr. Tejinder, Skill Assistant Professor Dr. Sru~ula, Skill Assistant Professor Dr. Raj Kumar Tewatia, Skjll Instructor Ms. Somya, Science Teacher, SVSU Sr. Sec. School Mr. Sanshbir Dagar, Sr. Skill Instructor t--r---- ----4---------------+--=---:::--:--:--::::---:---;:--:--;-:-----;::--;---- -- 10 Student To Motivate and promote all the Dr. Rajesh Chauhan. Public Relation Voters Club students of SVSU to Vote. Officer To promote electoral literacy, Mr. Sansh Bir Dagar, Sr. Skill democratic values, and responsible Instructor citizenship among students Dr. Neeraj, SAP, CSE 1 Dr. Tajinder, SAP, SFA 1---+-------+------------------t------------- - - -- - -- 1 1 Dadasaheb To coordinate, organize ru1d promote activities theatre, photography, painting, sketching, skit, leadership. ethics Dr. Preeti, Skill Assistant Professor Dr. Aanchal Khatri_ Skill Assistant Professor Phalke Photograph y Club 12 Eco Club Dr. Sunil Kumar Sharma, SAP To inculcate envi ronn-1e-n-ta-=-l--r-=D-r-:. H::-:-ar~is_h_K_u_m_a_r ,-S-k-i-l l_A_s_s_is--ta_n_t_ --- - responsibility, ecological sensitivity, Professor, SF A and sustainable practices among Dr. Hemant Kamboj, Skill Assistant students, faculty, and staff, thereby Professor, SF ASH contributing to a green. clean. and Mr. Arvind, JE Horticulture. SF A sustainable campus ecosystem. f 311 L-:e=ga::"i1i---r:;1r:~o:--~p~r=-o=m~o-:-:te-:----:a~w~a-:-r~e1~1e~s:...:...s __ a_nd-;-f-;::D-r.~L:-a--:-l:-i t-:-K:--u-m-a1-·, _D_R ______ _ Literacy understanding of basic legal rights, D M k Sk'll A · I - r. ayan , 1 ss1stant Prol'cssor Club duties, and remedies among students, Mt· L kl · h d L • a 11111 c an , aw Assistant faculty. staff. and the surrounding - - Competitive Exam Club communitv - - !:...._ To enh_ance students' employability, academic progression. and career advancement by providing structured guidanc~, academic resources, and mentoring for Yarious competitive examinations. --....... ------ - Dr. Pant! Bhatia, Skill Assistant Professo~· Dr. Mayank, Skill Assistant Professor Mr. Vaibhav, SAP.

[PAGE 3]
• • _1_5_,_F_i_n __ c_A_r_t_s __ ..,..--T_o_p_r_o_m __ ot_e_c~a-t-i v-i-ty--an-d_a_r-ti-st-ic- D~. Dec pi ka, Ski II Assistant Pro fcsior Club expression by providing students with Dr. Priyanka, Skill Assistant Professor opportunities to explore, develop, and Dr. l-Iimani Varshnay, Skill Instructor showcase talents m visual and Mr. Hemant TripathL Skill Instructor 16 17 performing arts. i>syc-,-,o-lo_g_i-ca-1-+T'---o-p-ro-v-:i~d,_e_p_ro_fi_e_ss_i_o_n-al_s_u_p_p_o_rt_fi_o_r -t-=D-r-. S:::-h:-i v-K:-:-u-n-,a-r-. -=s-:-k:-:i 1-l -Assistant I)ro fe~so ~- Gu id an ce students' mental health and emotional Ms. Jaya Kaushik, Lab Technician Club well-being through counselling, Psychology Drug Prevention Club guidance. and preventive interventions. Ms. Priyam, SAP, SF ASH. To prevent substance abuse by creating Dr. Yogesh Verma, Skill Assistant Proks~o1 awareness about the harmful effects of Dr. Manoj. Skill Assistant Professor drugs and promoting healthy, drug-free Mr. Hariom, Pharmacist lifestyles among students. Ms. Jyoti, Staff Nurse • Faculty/Staff committees will take the students on role for the formation of committee/Club/Cell at students' level, as applicable. • Coordinators & Co-Coordinators from students will be nominated for all clubs will be nominated by DS \\' team for smooth conduct of the activities. • Faculty/Staff committees will act as mentor to the students, conduct the meetings and guide them to take up the activities accordingly. • Faculty/Staff committees will ensure formation of the students committees, head, plan of the activities and report the same within the one month. • Each Committee/Club/Cell will conduct at least 011t: activity in each semester and more as per the need/order. • Skill Faculties may form more Technical Cells/Societies in their domain areas under the guidance of respective Deans. • Accordingly records of the students, meetings and activities need to keep for the purpose of accreditation and university reports etc. • University Main Events like Cultural, Sports, and Technical etc. or any other everit will be organized centrally as per the DSW Calendar/Directions by th Government Authorities/Comp.etent Authority. CC: 1. OSD to VC for information to Hon'ble VC 2. PA to registrar for information to W. Registrar 3. Dean - Academic Affairs 4. Deans of Skill Faculties 5. Chairpersons of all Skill Department 6. All HODs 7. Notice Board Prof. (Dr.) (;1~01,,lo Dr. D~inc1 Dy. DSW (Facilitic~) Deputy DSW (Facilities) svsu


--- DOCUMENT: official_admission_bulletin_2025_26.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Information Bulletin Admission 2025-26  Programme Details - 2025-26  Supernumerary seats  Application fee  Selection Criteria  Tentative Schedule of Admission  Programme Details - 2025-26 S. No. Skill Faculty Programme Industry Partner* Eligibility Intake (1st Sem) 1 Skill Faculty of Agriculture Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Agriculture Farmus, Grow my Crops, Sabri.AI, Edible Routes, Bluegreens 10+2 or Equivalent 30 2 Master of Vocation (M. Voc.) Agriculture Farmus, Grow my Crops, Sabri.AI, Edible Routes, Bluegreens B.Voc Agriculture or Graduation in any discipline with 50% marks 20 3 Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.) Horticulture Bluegreens, Shivansh Farming 10th Pass or Equivalent 30 4 Skill Faculty of Management Research and Studies (SFMSR) B. Com Hons. /Hons. with Research 10+2 in Commerce or 10+2 in other stream with Mathematics/Economics with minimum 50% marks or any other Equivalent Examination 60 5 B. Voc. Management (Financial Services) Hons. /Hons. With Research 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 6 MBA Mazars, Desire Graduation With 50% Marks 30 7 MBA (Business Analytics) Mazars, Desire Graduation With 50% Marks 30 8 Bachelor of Hotel Management Courtyard, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country, Sarvatra 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 9 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc) Office Management 10th or Equivalent 30 10 BBA - BPM and Analytics (Hons. / Hons. With Research) Concentrix, Cyfuture 10+2 or 10th plus (2Years or 3 years) Diploma or 10th plus ITI (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 11 BBA MSIL/ Spencer/ Frontier Group 10+2 or Equivalent 120

[PAGE 2]
12 Skill Faculty of Management Research and Studies (SFMSR) Undergraduate Diploma in Airlines Management 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 13 Undergraduate Certificate in Food Production & Traditional Sweets Courtyard, Biiyani by Kilo, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country, Sarvatra 10+2 or 10th with two years of experience or Equivalent 20 14 MBA (Working Professional) Graduation with 3yr. Experience 20 15 M.Voc. Management (HRM) Mount Talent, Dzire Group B.Voc./ Graduation with 50% Marks 20 16 M.Voc Management Banking & Finance HDFC Bank, J & K Bank Graduation with 50% Marks 20 17 Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology (SFET) Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Engineering As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 18 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Science & Engineering (AI & ML) Falconix, Zetrance, Airport Authority of India, Darkblue Devops As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 19 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Electrical Engineering Zetrance, JBM Group As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 30 20 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing Schneider Electric, JBM Group, Zetrance, HL Mando Softtech Pvt. Ltd. As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 30 21 Bachelor in Computer Applications BCA/ BCA (Honours) Specialization in AI&ML/Data Science/ BCA (Honours with Research) Passed 10+2 examination or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). 120 22 Master of Computer Application (MCA) Darkblue Devops Vastav Intellect Globus Eight YBI Foundation Passed any graduation degree (e.g.: B.E. / B.Tech./ B.Sc / B.Com. / B.A./ B. Voc./ BCA etc.,) preferably with Mathematics at 10+2 level or at Graduation Level. 60 23 Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Solar Technology Quadsun, Solar Solution 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 24 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Anand Group 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 25 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Hero 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30

[PAGE 3]
26 Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology (SFET) Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechatronics Hero MotoCorp 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 27 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc. / Hons. with Research) Robotics and Automation JBM Group 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Mathematics and L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 28 Diploma in Computer Science & Engineering As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 29 Diploma Mechanical Engineering JBM Group As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 30 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Draughtsmanship (Civil) NCB, BMTPC 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 31 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing SKH/SI 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 32 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Roop Auto 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 33 Diploma in Industrial Electronics East West Automation Pvt. Ltd. 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 34 Diploma Computer Generative AI / Cyber Security 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 35 Diploma in Industrial Electronics Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd. 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 36 Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robotics and Automation JBM Group, Orangewood B.Tech / B.E. in ECE/CSE/IT/Mechanical/ M.Sc. (Electronics / IT) / MCA or Other related disciplines from any recognized university/institutions with a minimum of 55% marks or Equivalent grade(45% marks or Equivalent grade for Scheduled Caste/ Schedule Tribes). GATE qualified / Industry Experience candidates will be given preference. 18 37 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging(PGDSDP)  B.E /B.Tech completed students of the following branches: Electronics/Electronics & Communication / Electrical/ Electrical and Electronics/Instrumentation/ Biomedical /Computer Science/Information Technology/ or M.Sc. in Electronics/Physics (with relevant specialization).  B.E /B.Tech ongoing students of the above branches are eligible to enrol however preference will be given to applicants with experience.  Minimum 50% aggregate  Basic knowledge of semiconductor devices and circuits preferred 20 38 Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design 12th plus PCM to 12th (Any stream) 30

[PAGE 4]
39 Skill Faculty of Applied Science and Humanities (SFASH) Undergraduate Diploma in Japanese Language 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 20 40 Undergraduate Certificate in Music (Folk Art - Banchari/Instrumental/Vocal) 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 20 41 Undergraduate Certificate in Animation, Multimedia and Graphics 10+2 or 10 plus ( 2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma or 10th Plus ITI (Two Years) with one Language Subject (Hindi/English) 20 42 B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) Ayush Department 10+2 or 10 plus ( 2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma or 10th Plus ITI (Two Years) with one Language Subject (Hindi/English) 30 43 M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) B.Voc. MLT/B.Sc. MLT/BMLS/BMLT 20 44 B.Voc. (Medical Laboratory Technology) Honours with Research Healthians, QRG, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital, Neuberg 10+2 (PCB) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma in relevant field for Lateral Entry in 2nd Year. 30 45 Undergraduate Diploma in German Language Concentrix 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 30 46 B.Voc. (Public Services) UDAAN IAS Academy 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English) 30 47 B.Sc. Mathematics and Computing (Hons. with Research) 10+2 or equivalent with Mathematics as a compulsory subject with a minimum 50% marks. Relaxation as per UGC norms. 30 48 B.Sc. Clinical Psychology Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 30 49 PG Diploma Criminal Forensics Any Graduate 20

[PAGE 5]
50 M.Sc. Geo-informatics GMDA Bachelor's degree in the fields of Geography / Environmental Science / Forestry / Chemistry / Physics / Geology / Geophysics / Mathematics / Oceanography/ Agriculture/ Atmospheric Sciences/ Climatology/ Information Science/ Computer Science/ Disaster Management/ Engineering / Town Planning / Architecture / Botany/ Zoology/ allied disciplines with at least 50% marks or OR Masters in Geography with at least 50% marks or equivalent grade in aggregate 20 51 PG Diploma Public Policy IMPRL Any Graduate 20 52 M.Sc. Clinical Psychology Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital Any Graduate 20 53 M.A. English Graduation with minimum 50% marks. Relaxation as per UGC norms. 30 Note: 1. Relaxation in the minimum qualifying marks will be granted to SC/ST/OBC (Non-creamy Layer), PwD, and EWS candidates as per UGC regulations. 2. Students can apply for more than one programme using the same registration, however, a separate online admission form must be filed out for each programme along with the requisite fee.  Supernumerary seats • 02 seats will be available in each programme with an intake up to 30 for the domicile/ residents of Dudhola village Panchayat (s), who have gifted their land free of cost/on- lease to the state government (As per notification of the State Government). • 01 seat is reserved for migrants from J&K in each programme. • 10% seats are offered to women candidate in each programme (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/MBA Executive/ Lateral Entry). • 01 seat for the industry sponsored women candidate in each programme (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/Executive MBA/ M.Phil (CP)/Lateral Entry).. • The supernumerary seats for PM Cares students will be as per govt./statutory guidelines. • The provision for supernumerary seats for international students may be made as per UGC directions. • The Supernumerary seats for AICTE approved programmes will be as per AICTE/HSTES.

[PAGE 6]
 Application fee for the admission session 2025-26 is same as in session 2024-25: Sr. No. Category Portal category code Fee (Rs.) 1. AIC A 500/- 2. HOGC A 500/- 3 BC of Haryana B 250/- 4 EWS of Haryana B 250/- 5 Jammu & Kashmiri Migrants B 250/- 6 Female of Haryana C NIL 7 SC of Haryana C NIL 8 ST of Haryana C NIL 9 PwD of Haryana C NIL 10 Dudhola Candidates D 100/- 11 Saksham Yuva of Haryana E 50/- 12 Abhinandan: Veer Balidani Kritgayata Yojna (AVBKY) Wards & Spouse of Martyrs and Gallantry awards winners F 50/- 13 Transgender G NIL  Selection Criteria: Sr. No. Programmes Selection Criteria 1. AICTE approved Management programmes (MBA and BBA) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the AICTE for session 2025-26. 2. AICTE approved Engineering programmes (M.Tech, B.Tech & Diploma in Engineering) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the Haryana State Technical Education Society under the Department of Technical Education, Haryana, for session 2025-26 3. Programmes offered with OJT in association with industry partners (Except AICTE approved) 80% weightage to marks obtained in qualifying exam. 20% weightage to marks obtained in personal interview/Group discussion with industry. 4. Programmes other than mentioned at Sr. no. 1, 2 & 3 above. On the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying exam.

[PAGE 7]
 Tentative Schedule of admission for UG certificate/UG Diploma/Diploma/D.Voc/UG programmes-B.Voc/ BBA/B.Com/B. Hotel Management, etc. Sr. No. Activity Date 1. Online Filling of application form 15th May 2025 onwards 2. The last date for Online Submission of Application Form 25th June 2025 3. Result of Candidates Selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion 08th July 2025 4. Personal Interview/Group Discussion 10th July 2025- 15th July 2025 5. 1st Counselling & 2nd Counselling 17th July 2025 – 25th July 2025 7. Final Merit 29th July 2025 8. Commencement of Programme 04th Aug 2025 9. Spot counselling (In case of any vacancy only) 14th Aug 2025 - 18th Aug 2025  Tentative Schedule of Events for PG Diploma/PG Programmes/M.Voc./MBA/M.Tech /M.Sc., etc. Sr. No. Activity Date 1 Online Filling of the application form 16th June 2025 2 Last Date for online Submission of application form 21st July 2025 3 Result of candidates selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion by each skill faculty 24th July 2025 4 Personal Interview/Group Discussion 29th to 31st July 2025 5 1st Counselling 06th – 07th August, 2025 6 2nd Counselling 08th August 2025 7 Final Merit 13th August 2025 8 Commencement of Programme 14th August 2025 9 Spot counselling (In case of vacancy) 18th -29th August, 2025

[PAGE 8]
Note: - These are tentative dates any change may be notified on University website and no separate communication may be made. The Schedule of Admission in B.Tech. courses and Diploma (Engineering) shall be same as per notified by HSTES, Haryana for 2025-26.  Fee Structure (For 1st Year) Fee Structure for Professional/Vocational Programme-2025-26 • D.Voc./UG Certificate/UG Diploma/Diploma/B.Voc./BBA/BCA/BCA integrated MCA/B.Sc/B.Com(H)/B.HM/M.Voc./M.Sc./MBA /PGD: - 1. Registration Fees: 360/- (One Time Fee) S. No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) Security Fund (One Time Fee) Admission Fees (One Time Fee) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examinati on Fee Student Activity Fund Developme nt Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semeste r) 1 B.Voc./B.Sc. 6/8 1000 500 12600 3000 800 1500 1200 19100 2 BBA/B. Com. (Hons. /Research) 6/8 1000 500 15750 3000 800 1500 1200 22250 3 Bachelor in Computer Applications BCA/ BCA(Honours) Specialization in AI&ML/Data Science/ BCA (Honours with Research) 6/8 1000 500 33500 3000 800 1500 1200 40000 4 MCA 4 1000 500 43500 3000 800 1500 1200 50000 5 B. Hotel Management 8 1000 500 31500 3000 800 1500 1200 38000 6 Undergraduate Certificate (1 yr.) 2 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950 7 D.Voc. (2 years) 4 1000 500 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850 8 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 9 PG Diploma 2 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 10 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging (PGDSDP) 2 1000 500 23500 3000 800 1500 1200 30000 11 UG Certificate in Music (Folk Art-Banchari) 2 1000 500 525 3000 800 1500 1200 7025 12 UG Diploma 4 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950

[PAGE 9]
13 B.Sc Clinical Psychology 6 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 14 M.A. English 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 15 M.Sc Clinical Psychology 4 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 16 PG Diploma in Criminal Forensic 2 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 17 MBA working Professional 4 2000 2000 44100 3000 3000 6000 6000 62100 18 Diploma (Computer) Generative AI/ Cyber Security 6 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 19 PG Diploma Public Policy 2 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000 20 UG Diploma in Airlines Management 6 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000 Fee Structure for Technical Programme-2025-26 • One Time Fees for B.Tech./M. Tech. /MBA: - 1. Security Fund: -2000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 2000/- 3. Registration Fees: 360/- S.No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examination Fee Student Activity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Tech. 8 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 2 M. Tech. 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 3 MBA (General) 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 4 MBA (Business Analytics) 4 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 5 Diploma Engineering 6 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850

[PAGE 10]
Fee Structure Industry Sponsored Candidate for Vocational Programme 2025-26 • One Time Fees for B. Voc./BBA/Diploma/D. Voc./M. Voc./M.Sc./PGD/BHM/B. Com: - 1. Security Fund: -1000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 500/- 3. Registration Fees: 360/- S. No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examination Fee Student Activity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Voc. 6 14700 2500 800 1500 1200 20700 2 BBA/B. Com 6/8 21000 2500 800 1500 1200 27000 3 BHM 8 36750 2500 800 1500 1200 42750 4 Diploma 2 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 5 D.Voc./ Diploma 6 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 6 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850 7 PG Diploma 2 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850


--- DOCUMENT: Ph.D-regulations.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Regulations For Doctor of Philosophy R2023 (As per UGC Regulations 2022) Shri Vishwakarma Skill University

[PAGE 2]
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS FOR DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY R 2023 1. Introduction The ordinance conforms to University Grants Commission Gazette (Minimum Standards and Procedure for award of Ph.D. Degrees) Regulations, 2022. These Regulations are effective for the batches of students admitted from the academic session 2023-24 and onwards. 2. Definitions In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - a) “Adjunct Faculty” means a part-time or contingent instructor, but not full-time faculty member hired to teach by the university; b) “Course” means one of the specified units which go to comprise a programme of study; c) “Course Work” means courses of study prescribed by the Skill Faculty/Department to be undertaken by a student registered for the Ph.D. Degree; d) “COE” shall mean Controller of Examinations of the University; e) “Degree” means a degree awarded by Shri Vishwakarma Skill University in accordance with the provisions of section 22 (3) of the Act; f) “Dean” shall mean Dean of the concerned Skill Faculty; g) “External examiner” means an academician/researcher with published research work who is not part of the university; h) “Faculty” shall mean a skill Faculty of the University; i) “Foreign Educational Institution” means–(i) an institution duly established or incorporated in its home country and offering educational programmes at the undergraduate, postgraduate and higher levels in its home country and (ii) which offers programme(s) of study leading to the award of a degree through conventional face-to-face mode, but excluding distance, online, ODL mode; j) “Guide/Research Supervisor” means an academician/researcher recognized by the university to supervise the Ph.D. scholar for his/her research; k) “Industry Research Mentor” means a professional working in industry/research organization; l) “Industry Sponsored Candidate” means a PhD candidate who is employed in an industry and is sponsored by the industry for pursing the PhD degree; m) “Interdisciplinary Research” means research conducted by a Ph.D. scholar in two or more academic disciplines; n) “Joint Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University/industry other than the Supervisor, and approved by Skill Council on the recommendation of the SFRC to guide/supervise the research work of the research scholar; o) “Open and Distance Learning Mode” shall have the same meaning as defined under the UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations 2020; p) “Online Mode” shall have the same meaning as defined under the UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations 2020; q) “Plagiarism” means the practice of taking someone else’s work or idea and passing them as one’s own;

[PAGE 3]
r) “Programme” stands for Doctor of Philosophy; s) “RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the Faculty/Department; t) “Research Outcome” means the socio-economic impact created through the PhD work done by the candidate; u) “Research Proposal” means a brief write-up giving an outline of the proposed research work which the Ph.D. scholar shall submit along with the application for registration for Ph.D. programme; v) “Skill Council” shall mean academic body of the university; w) “SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee; x) “URS” shall mean University Research Scholarship; y) “University” means Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Words and expressions used and not defined in SVSU Act and not consistent with these Regulations shall have the meanings assigned to them in that Act. 3. Eligibility Criteria for Admission to the Ph.D. Programme The following are eligible to seek admission to the Ph.D. programme: 3.1 Candidates who have completed 1-year/2-semester master's degree programme after a 4- year/8-semester bachelor’s degree programme or a 2-year/4-semester master’s degree programme after a 3-year bachelor’s degree programme or qualifications declared equivalent to the master’s degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed or equivalent qualification from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of the educational institution. 3.2 A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 3.3 Provided that a candidate seeking admission after a 4-year/8-semester bachelor’s degree programme should have a minimum of 75% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade on a point scale wherever the grading system is followed. A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 3.4 Candidates who have completed the M.Phil. programme with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed or equivalent qualification from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit or assure quality and standards of educational institutions, shall be eligible for admission to the Ph.D. programme. A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section

[PAGE 4]
(EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 4. Procedure for Admission 4.1 The admission shall be based on the criteria notified by the university, keeping in view the guidelines/norms in this regard issued by the UGC and other statutory/regulatory bodies concerned, and considering the reservation policy of the Haryana State Government from time to time. 4.2 Admission to the Ph.D. programme shall be made using the following methods: i. The university shall admit students who qualify for fellowship/scholarship in UGC- NET/UGC- CSIR NET/GATE/CEED and similar National level tests based on an interview. ii. The university shall admit students, who have not qualified UGC-NET/UGC- CSIR NET/GATE/CEED and similar National level tests, through an Entrance Test. The Entrance Test syllabus shall consist of 50% of research methodology, and 50% shall be subject- specific. Test syllabus of research methodology will be same for all disciplines. The syllabus for subject specific examination will be provided by the concerned department. The entrance test will be conducted by examination department. iii. Students who have secured 50 % marks in the entrance test are eligible to be called for the interview. iv. A relaxation of 5 % marks will be allowed in the entrance examination for the candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC/differently-abled category, Economically Weaker Section (EWS), and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. v. The university shall decide the number of eligible students to be called for an interview based on the number of Ph.D. seats available. vi. Provided that for the selection of candidates based on the entrance test conducted by the university, a weightage of 70% for the entrance test and 30 % for the performance in the interview/viva- voce shall be given. vii. The performance of the student during interview will be assessed on the basis of understanding of industry-based research and its impact on socio-economic areas through presentation before duly constituted SFRC. 4.3 The candidate applying for admission to the Ph.D. program of the university may also identify an industry research problem for Ph.D. research work and present the same during interview. Such candidates should have prior industry experience, or must have completed at least two weeks of on-the-job training in the relevant industry at the time of interview. 4.4 The university to conduct Ph.D. programmes, shall: i). Notify a prospectus well in advance on its website specifying the number of seats for admission, subject/discipline-wise distribution of available seats, criteria for admission, the procedure for admission, and all other relevant information for the candidates; ii). Adhere to the State-level reservation policy, as applicable. 4.5 The university shall maintain a list of Ph.D. supervisors (specifying the name of the supervisor, his or her designation, and the department/school/centre), along with the details of Ph.D. scholars (specifying the name of the registered Ph.D. scholar, the topic of his/her research and the date of admission) admitted under them on the website of the university and update this list every academic year. 4.6 The candidate standing in the final merit list will be given provisional admission in PhD programme with the submission of required fee. The admitted candidate will be allotted provisional enrollment number by the University. The provisional enrollment number allotted

[PAGE 5]
to the scholar will be the registration number as and when his/her registration for PhD programs is recommended and approved by PGBoS of concerned faculty and the Skill Council. 4.7 The fee for Ph.D. course shall be as notified in the prospectus. 5. Course Work. 5.1 Each admitted candidate shall be required to complete the mandatory regular PhD course work. 5.2 The Credit requirement for the Ph.D. coursework is a minimum of 14 credits, including a “Research and Publication Ethics” course and a Research Methodology course. The Research Advisory Committee can also recommend UGC recognized online courses as part of the credit requirements for the Ph.D. programme. The structure of minimum credits requirement for the course work is as i. Research Methodology (3 Credits) ii. Research and Publication Ethics (RPE) (2 Credits) iii. Industry Orientation and Literature Survey (3 Credit) iv. Two Elective Subject(s) related to the area of research suggested by supervisor (3 Credits each) 5.3 The respective Skill Faculty may offer additional credits for Elective subjects for the PhD coursework. The maximum no of credits preferably should not be more than 16. All Ph.D. scholars, irrespective of discipline, shall be required to train in teaching/education/ pedagogy/writing related to their chosen Ph.D. subject during their doctoral period. Ph.D. scholars may also be assigned 4-6 hours per week of teaching/research assistantship for conducting tutorial or laboratory work and evaluations. 5.4 All research scholars admitted to Ph.D. Programme shall be required to complete the coursework with in two semesters. 5.5 The candidate will be allowed to appear in the course work examinations, if he/she has attended not less than 75% of lectures delivered in theory as well as practical. 5.6 Ph.D. scholar must obtain a minimum of 55% marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 10- point scale in the course work to be eligible to continue in the programme and submit his or her thesis. 6. Guideline for Selection of Industry-based Research Problems, and Role of Industry Research mentor and Industry In line with motto of the University, the PhD program of the University will be based on research problems arising from industry and society. The general guidelines in this regard are as follows: 6.1 Eligible supervisors will identify research problems in collaboration with industry/research organizations and also industry research mentors. These problems will be offered as research problems to the candidates admitted in Ph.D. program of the university. 6.2 Industry professionals/scientists/professional working in R&D organizations with an undergraduate degree with more than 25 years of experience or post graduate degree with at least 15 years of professional/industry/research experience may be recognized as research mentors. 6.3 The research mentor will provide the guidance and necessary support during the research work carried out by the candidate.

[PAGE 6]
6.4 The details of research problems, mentioned in point 6(1) above, will be forwarded to the Research and Development Cell through the Chairperson/Dean of each department/skill faculty. 6.5 The tentative number of PhD seats and research areas may be decided on the basis of industry-based research problems identified by the research supervisors. There may be some additional seats (supernumerary) for Industry Sponsored candidates. 6.6 The candidate needs to spend one month in industry after seeking admission in the university as part of industry orientation. The candidate should spend 60-90 hours in the industry/organization as part of industry orientation credit. 6.7 The candidate will have flexibility to change the research mentor during the research program, in case a. the research mentor has left the organization or the research mentor proceeds on leave/deputation of more than one year from the parent organization. b. by mutual consent of research mentor and the research scholar The research scholar shall make a request in writing to change the research mentor to Dean R&D through the supervisor and Dean of respective skill faculty. 6.8 Presentation after one month of industry orientation before a committee constituted by Dean R&D will be part of the three-credit course in PhD course work. There will be an external presentation for same at the time of end term assessment of course work also and the same needs to be conducted as per PhD scheme of respective skill faculty. The report of industry orientation duly signed by the research mentor needs to be submitted by the student. 6.9 The industry will facilitate the candidate to work on a research problem that benefits the industry and contributes to its development in a direct or indirect way. The industry may support financially and professionally the full-time research scholar(s) during their research work. 7. Skill Faculty Research Committee and Its functions 7.1 Each Skill Faculty offering Ph.D. programme shall have a Skill Faculty Research Committee (SFRC). All faculty members of the SFRC must be qualified to be supervisors. The SFRC need to be approved by competent authority on recommendation of Dean of respective skill faculty. The information for same must be receded to Dean R&D. 7.2 Application(s) for registration to the PhD programme after successful completion of course work from the eligible candidates on the prescribed format along with the synopsis prepared in consultation with the concerned supervisor shall be considered by SFRC. 7.3 Dean of concerned department/faculty shall place the applications for registration along with the recommendations of Research Advisory Committee (RAC) before SFRC. SFRC will invite candidate(s) to defend the research proposal(s). In the synopsis student should mention the broad area of research and tentative topic of the research. The final topic of the research will be submitted by the students before six months of submission with recommendations of RAC. The SFRC may recommended the synopsis of research for consideration or suggest suitable changes in the synopsis of research. 7.4 The SFRC shall consist of the following: i. Dean of the Skill Faculty - Chairperson ii. Two external experts, one from academia and industry each outside SVSU preferably at the level of Professor or equivalent (Nominated by the Vice Chancellor)

[PAGE 7]
iii. All Professors of the Skill Faculty iv. Two Associate Professors of the Skill Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two years v. Two Assistant Professors of the skill Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two years. vi. One Assistant Professor/Associate Professor/Professor of the skill Faculty as a representative of SC/ST/OBC. 7.5 In such cases, where, Skill Faculty have strength of less than ten regular faculties, all members who are eligible to be supervisors, will be members of SFRC. Provided that where no faculty member is eligible to be the Chairperson of SFRC, the senior most faculty member if eligible to be research (Ph.D.) supervisor will convene the meetings of the SFRC as its convener. The meetings of the SFRC may be held at least once in every semester, if required the number of meetings may be more than one. 7.6 Two/fifth of members shall form a quorum. The supervisor of the candidate if not a member of SFRC, may be called as special invitee for case of concerned candidate. 7.7 The SFRC shall clearly mention the Registration No., Name of Scholar, Topic of Research, Name of Supervisor, Co-Supervisor if any recording full justification in its recommendations. 7.8 SFRC shall recommend the registration of qualified candidate with the nominated supervisor and while recommending the registration of the candidate for consideration by Post Graduate Board of Studies (PGBoS), the SFRC shall clearly state whether in its opinion, 7.8.1 The subject proposed for research is suitable or not 7.8.2 The supervisor(s) recommended is/are eligible or not 7.9 The recommendations of SFRC for PhD registrations shall be placed before PGBoS of faculty, and Skill Council for consideration and approval, respectively. The meeting of PGBoS will normally be held within one month of the meeting of SFRC. 7.10 The date of conformation of registration of the research scholar shall be same on which the PGBoS recommends the registration of candidate. 7.11 The SFRC shall also constitute the Research Advisory Committee on recommendation of Research supervisor. It must be constituted within one month from the date of provisional registration of the candidate or before the completion of one-month mandatory industry orientation credit by the respective candidate. 7.12 The minutes of SFRC must be circulated to Dean R&D for information 8. Research Advisory Committee (RAC) and its Functions 8.1 There shall be a Research Advisory Committee for each Ph.D. scholar. The Research Supervisor of the Ph.D. scholar concerned shall be the Convener of this committee, and this committee shall have the following responsibilities: i. To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research. ii. To guide the Ph.D. scholar in developing the study design and methodology of research and identify the course(s) that he/she may have to do. iii. To periodically review and assist in the progress of the research work of the Ph.D. scholar. 8.2 Each semester, a Ph.D. scholar shall appear before the Research Advisory Committee to make a presentation and submit a brief report on the progress of his/her work for evaluation and further guidance. The Research Advisory Committee shall submit its recommendations along with a copy of Ph.D. scholar’s progress report to the SFRC. A copy of such recommendations shall also be provided to the Ph.D. scholar. 8.3 In case the progress of the Ph.D. scholar is unsatisfactory, the Research Advisory Committee

[PAGE 8]
shall record the reasons for the same and suggest corrective measures. If the Ph.D. scholar fails to implement these corrective measures, the Research Advisory Committee may recommend, with specific reasons, the cancellation of the registration of the Ph.D. scholar from the Ph.D. programme to SFRC. 8.4 The structure of Research Advisory committee (RAC) shall be: Research Supervisor of the Scholar- Convener, and two experts (One Internal and One external outside the university) and an industry research mentor. One of the experts should be at the level of Professor/Associate Professor or equivalent with proven record of research guidance in the relevant/allied area of research. RAC shall be approved by SFRC. 9. Duration of the Programme 9.1 Ph.D. Programme shall be for a minimum duration of three years, including course work, and a maximum duration of six (6) years from the date of admission to the Ph.D. programme. 9.2 A maximum of an additional two (2) years can be given through a process of re-registration as per the Statute/Ordinance of the university; provided, however, that the total period for completion of a Ph.D. programme should not exceed eight (8) years from the date of admission in the Ph.D. programme. 9.3 Provided further that, female Ph.D. scholars and Persons with Disabilities (having more than 40% disability) may be allowed an additional relaxation of two (2) years; however, the total period for completion of a Ph.D. programme in such cases should not exceed ten (10) years from the date of admission in the Ph.D. programme. 9.4 Female Ph.D. Scholars may be provided Maternity Leave/Child Care Leave for up to 240 days in the entire duration of the Ph.D. programme. 9.5 The candidates who are awarded fellowships by the university/outside agency to carry out PhD work shall require to stay in the concerned department/faculty of the university for whole duration of the fellowship. 9.6 The office of Dean of the respective skill faculty must maintain the attendance register of the candidates enrolled in the PhD programme. 9.7 No research scholar shall join any other course or appear in any other examination conducted by the University leading to the awarded of degree/diploma during the period of his/her study. 9.8 Every research scholar shall be required to submit half yearly report on the prescribed Performa to the Department. 9.9 In case the progress of the research scholar is mentioned unsatisfactory, the RAC shall record the reasons for the same and suggest corrective measures. 9.10 In case, the research scholar fails to implement the corrective measures as suggested by the RAC and progress of the subsequent semester/half year is also found unsatisfactory, the case needs to be presented in the upcoming meeting of SFRC. The SFRC may recommend, along with the observation of RAC, to the P.G. Board of Studies for cancellation of the registration of the said candidate for approval of skill council. 10. Allocation of Research Supervisor Eligibility criteria to be a Research Supervisor, Co-Supervisor, Number of Ph.D. scholars permissible per supervisor, etc. 10.1 Permanent faculty members working as Professor/Associate Professor of the university with a Ph.D., and at least five research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals and permanent faculty members working as Assistant Professors in the University with a Ph.D., and at least three research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals may be recognized as a Research Supervisor in the university or in its affiliated Post-Graduate

[PAGE 9]
Colleges/institutes. 10.2 Additionally, industry exposure for all faculty members shall be a mandatory requirement to be recognized as Ph.D. supervisors. Faculty members should have prior industry experience, or should have completed on the job training of at least two weeks in any relevant Industry. 10.3 All research supervisors shall be recognized on recommendation of PG BOS of respective department of respective Skill Faculty duly approved by SFRC. Such recognized research supervisors cannot supervise research scholars in other institutions, where they can only act as co-supervisors. 10.4 For Ph.D. scholars working in Central government/ State government research institutions whose degrees are given by the university, the scientists in such research institutions who are equivalent to Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor can be recognized as supervisors if they fulfill the above requirements. 10.5 Co-Supervisors from within the same department or other departments of the university or other institutions may be permitted with the approval of the competent authority. 10.6 Adjunct Faculty members shall not act as Research Supervisors and can only act as co- supervisors. 10.7 In case of interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary research work, if required, a Co-Supervisor from outside the Department/Skill Faculty/University may be appointed. 10.8 An eligible Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor can guide up to eight (8) / six (6) / four (4) Ph.D. scholars, respectively, at any given time. 10.9 In case of relocation of a female Ph.D. scholar due to marriage or otherwise, the research data shall be allowed to be transferred to the Higher Educational Institution to which the scholar intends to relocate, provided all the other conditions in these Regulations are followed, and the research work does not pertain to a project sanctioned to the university/Supervisor by any funding agency. Such scholar shall, however, give due credit to the university and the supervisor for the part of research already undertaken. 10.10 Faculty members with less than three years of service before superannuation shall not be allowed to take new research scholars under their supervision. However, such faculty members can continue to supervise Ph.D. scholars who are already registered until superannuation and as a co-supervisor after superannuation, but not after attaining the age of 70 years. 11. Change of Supervisor 11.1 In case the supervisor has expired or has left the services of University or the supervisor proceeds on leave/deputation of more than one year and the research scholar make a request in writing to change the supervisor. Or 11.2 By mutual consent of supervisor and the research scholar Or 11.3 In case of extreme hardship where it becomes almost impossible for the candidate/supervisor to work together, the candidate/supervisor may submit representation to the Dean of concerned faculty for necessary action. The Dean of concerned faculty shall refer the matter before SFRC and PGBoS for decision. However, the change in such cases shall be allowed after approval of Skill Council. 11.4 The recommendations for these cases must need to be submitted to Dean R&D for information. 12. Admission of International Students in Ph.D. programme

[PAGE 10]
1. Each supervisor can guide up to two international research scholars on a supernumerary basis over and above the permitted number of Ph.D. scholars as specified in clause 6.2 above. 2. Eligibility criteria for admission to the PhD program of foreign nationals is same as mentioned in clause 3. Foreign nationals must provide evidence of language competence suited to the Skill Faculty they wish to join. Foreign nationals are exempted from entrance test. 3. At any point, the total number of Ph.D. scholars under a faculty member, either as a supervisor or a co-supervisor, shall not exceed the number prescribed in clause 10.8. 13. Financial Assistance to Research Scholars 1. Research scholars who are working in projects as JRF and SRF shall get financial assistance from the fund of the projects. 2. For Full-time Ph.D. scholars who do not have any financial assistance will be eligible for financial assistance ship. Each Skill Faculty will have two scholarships every year. The scholarship will be University Research Scholarship (URS), and it will be awarded on the basis of the joint merit of the entrance test and interview. The amount of this scholarship shall be Rs.15,000/- per month. It will be tenable for two years in the first instance. This scholarship may be extended only for a period not exceeding one year i.e. 3rd year by the Vice-Chancellor on the recommendations of the Committee consisting of the Dean, Chairperson of the Department and the Supervisor of the scholar. 3. Each scholar receiving this scholarship shall also receive a contingency grant of Rs. 5000/- per annum. This amount may be utilized on apparatus, chemicals, books and journals, Photostat copies, macro films, typing, stationery, postage and field work/travel, conference/workshops needed in connection with the approved research projects with the approval of the Dean of the Faculty on the recommendations of the Supervisor. The contingency grant is not intended for making payment of examination and other fees. 4. This scholarship shall be awarded on the recommendations of the Selection Committee consisting of the Dean of the Faculty and two senior members of the Faculty. 5. This scholarship will be awarded from the date of joining in the Faculty before registration including pre-registration period. However, the amount will be payable after his/her registration in the department. Failure to get registered will disqualify the candidate for this scholarship. 6. The scholar will be required to submit a certificate of progress and satisfactory work, duly countersigned by his/her Supervisor and recommended by the concerned RAC to the SFRC every six months. The continuance of the fellowship would be subject to satisfactory progress of work of the scholars. 7. The scholar shall complete the full period of research work. In the event of a scholar discontinuing or giving up his work before the expiry of two years, or before the expiry of the extended period, if extension was allowed, for no valid reason he shall be required to refund to the university the entire amount received by him. 8. Foreign research scholars must show proof of financial support for the duration of the Ph.D. enrolment. 9. Financial assistance shall not be provided where the research scholar is availing paid study leave. 14 Evaluation and Assessment Methods, minimum standards/credits for award of the degree, etc.

[PAGE 11]
14.1 Every research scholar will be required to show continuous semester wise progress after the completion of course work (Ist Semester) of his/her Ph.D. work from IInd Semester onward till the submission of the thesis and it will be monitored by the supervisor and research mentor of the candidate. 14.2 Every research scholar shall be required to submit his half yearly (semester report) on the prescribed proforma within 10 days of end of each semester. The supervisor of the research Scholar will give assessment about the progress of the scholar. The Report shall be placed before the RAC for its evaluation in its meeting. 14.3 The registration form, progress report along with receipt of fee paid for that half year (Semester) will be submitted to the Dean/Chairperson of the faculty/department concerned for record and he/she will ensure, before accepting the progress report, that the scholar has paid all fees/dues up to the period of the submission of the half yearly report. 14.4 In case two consecutive six monthly (semester) reports are unsatisfactory, on the recommendations of the RAC the SFRC may recommend to PGBoS for cancellation of the registration. The Dean/Chairperson of the Faculty/Department concerned shall submit one copy of the progress report of the scholar to the Dean R&D along with minutes of SFRC. 14.5 Upon satisfactory completion of course work and obtaining the marks/grade prescribed in clause (6) of Regulation 5 above, the Ph.D. scholar shall be required to undertake research work and produce a draft dissertation/thesis. 14.6 Before submitting the dissertation/thesis, the Ph.D. scholar shall make a presentation before SFRC, which shall also be open to RAC members, faculty members and other research scholars/students. The feedback may be incorporated into the draft thesis under advice of the supervisor. The Dean of the concerned faculty shall issue a circular one week prior to pre-submission presentation on the recommendation of the supervisor. 14.7 A Ph.D. research scholar shall publish at least two research paper in any SCI/Scopus/Web of sciences/ABDC indexed journals before submission of the thesis and produce evidence for the same in the form of an acceptance letter or a reprint. 14.8 The Registration & Scholarship (R&S) Branch shall provide information regarding submission of fee for the thesis and the Research Scholar shall be required to take ‘No Dues’ from R&S, Accounts, Library, concerned Department and Hostel etc. The thesis shall be accepted by the Examination Branch after production of No Dues. 14.9 The university shall have a mechanism using well-developed software applications to detect plagiarism in research work and the research integrity shall be an integral part of all the research activities leading to the award of a Ph.D. degree. The thesis should be plagiarism free, and guidelines issued in this regard by UGC shall be followed. 14.10 A Ph.D. scholar shall submit the thesis for evaluation, along with (a) an undertaking from the Ph.D. scholar that there is no plagiarism and (b) a certificate from the Research Supervisor attesting to the originality of the thesis and that the thesis has not been submitted for the award of any other degree/diploma to any other Higher Educational Institution. 14.11 A scholar shall submit his/her thesis in English medium. He/she shall submit four copies of the thesis along with six copies of the summary of the thesis in about 300 words in English medium indicating how far the thesis embodies the result of his own research and in what respects his/her investigations appear to him/her to advance the knowledge of subject of his/her thesis. 14.12 The candidate may submit the copies of the summary within one month of the meeting of SFRC in which Pre-submission seminar presentation was given, so that COE may get the examiners appointed with approval of competent authority in anticipation of the submission

[PAGE 12]
of the thesis. The summary may be sent to the examiners while seeking their consents for evaluation of the thesis. 14.13 The scholar shall initially submit the thesis in soft binding form along with soft copy of the thesis preferably in pen drive. After the evaluation of thesis by the examiners, if both the examiners find the thesis worthy of being awarded Ph.D. degree, the Secrecy Branch shall inform the scholar through the supervisor within 15 days to submit hard bound copy of his/her thesis. If the thesis has been accepted with minor changes, the Secrecy Branch will intimate the scholar through the supervisor within 15 days of receipt of both the evaluation reports. 14.14 The Ph.D. thesis submitted by a Ph.D. scholar shall be evaluated by his/her Research Supervisor and at least two external examiners who are experts in the field and not in employment of the Higher Educational Institution concerned. Such examiner(s) should be academics with a good record of scholarly publications in the field. Wherever possible, one of the external examiners should be chosen from outside India. A panel of eight examiners (four examiners within country and four examiners outside the country) will be sent to Vice Chancellor for finalization of two examiners. The viva-voce board shall consist of the Research Supervisor and at least one of the two external examiners and may be conducted online. The viva-voce shall be open to the members of the Research Advisory Committee/SFRC/faculty members’/research scholars, and students. The research mentor must be invited as the special invitee at the time of final viva-voce. 14.15 The scholar will submit the revised thesis incorporating all the changes, suggested by the examiners, in hard bound form in the faculty/Department concerned. The scholar and supervisor shall submit a signed declaration along with the final thesis that all the modifications suggested by both the examiners have been incorporated in the final thesis. 14.16 The research scholar shall submit four printed/typed copies of his/her thesis, mentioning the name of the candidate, supervisor etc. along with two soft copies of thesis in pdf files on separate CDs. The title page of the Ph.D. thesis would be in Maroon Colour with Golden Printing on it. 14.17 It shall be typed both sides (Font-times New roman, Size-12 and Line spacing-1.5) and should include the pages having title, acknowledgement, research mentor certificate, contents, references etc. and shall be a piece of research work characterized either by discovery of new facts or enunciation of a new theory or theories or by fresh interpretation of known facts and must have some socio-economic impact. 14.18 All the files will be converted in PDF format and finally submit the softcopy of the final hard bound thesis preferably in pen drive. The thesis finally submitted shall have all the essential elements (like Title of Thesis, declaration regarding prevention of plagiarism, certificates, abstract, dedication, Acknowledgement, research mentor certificate, table of contents, list of abbreviations, list of tables and figures, list of appendices (if any), chapters, conclusion, References, list of publications, Proof of Publications). 14.19 The viva-voce of the Ph.D. scholar to defend the thesis shall be conducted if both the external examiners recommend acceptance of the thesis after incorporating any corrections suggested by them. If one of the external examiners recommends rejection, the university shall send the thesis to an alternate external examiner from the approved panel of examiners, and the viva- voce examination shall be held only if the alternate examiner recommends acceptance of the thesis. If the alternate examiner does not recommend acceptance of the thesis, the thesis shall be rejected, and the Ph.D. scholar shall be declared ineligible for the award of a Ph.D. 14.20 The university shall complete the entire process of evaluating a Ph. D. thesis, including the declaration of the viva-voce result, within a period of six (6) months from the date of submission of the thesis.

[PAGE 13]
14.21 After the viva-voce examination, the notification for the degree to be awarded or rejected with approval from /Vice Chancellor will be issued. Further, provisional degree shall be issued from the date of meeting of final viva voce to such students in whose cases the Committee has recommended for the award of Ph.D. Degree. 14.22 After finalization of the award of Ph.D. Degree, one copy (both hard and soft) will be sent to the University Library and the other to the Department. The third copy may be returned to the candidate. 15. Ph.D. through Part-time Mode 1. Ph.D. programme through part-time mode will be permitted, provided all the conditions are fulfilled. 2. The university shall obtain a “No Objection Certificate” through the candidate for a part- time Ph.D. programme from the appropriate authority in the organization where the candidate is employed, clearly stating that: i. The candidate is permitted to pursue studies on a part-time basis. ii. His/her official duties permit him/her to devote sufficient time for research. iii. If required, he/she will be relieved from the duty to complete the course work. 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations or any other law, for the time being in force, the University shall not conduct Ph.D. programmes through distance and/or online mode. 16. Grant of M.Phil. Degree The university shall not offer the M.Phil. (Master of Philosophy) programme. 17. Issuing a Provisional certificate. Prior to the actual award of the Ph.D. degree, the university shall issue a provisional certificate to the effect that the Ph.D. is being awarded in accordance with the provisions of UGC Regulations 2022. 18. Award of Ph.D. degrees prior to Notification of these Regulations Award of degrees to candidates already registered and pursuing Ph.D. till the date of Notification of these Regulations shall be governed by the previous Ph.D. ordinance of the University, 2020- 21, in accordance with UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil./Ph.D. Degrees) Regulations, 2016. 19. Depository with INFLIBNET. Following the successful completion of the evaluation process and before the announcement of the award of the Ph.D. degree(s), the university shall submit an electronic copy of the Ph.D. thesis to INFLIBNET, for hosting the same so as to make it accessible to all the Higher Educational Institutions and research institutions.


--- DOCUMENT: phd-ordinance.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY ORDINANCE Governing Programmes Leading to Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Dudhola, Palwal-121102, Haryana Transit office: Plot 147, Sector 44, Gurugram-122001, Haryana Website: www.svsu.ac.in Contact No: +91-124-234467

[PAGE 2]
ORDINANCE-DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY In accordance with UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for the Award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulations, 2016 (w.e.f. 2020-21) 1. Preamble The Ph.D programme is an integral component of the Skill education in the University. All the Skill Faculty will offer Ph.D programmes in identified thrust areas which are based on facilities available and market requirements. Ph.D. programmes of University will pivot around challenges and expectations faced by the industries in terms of creativity, innovation, excellence, enhancement of efficiency and optimization in the domain of – Conceptualization & identification, Designing, Manufacturing, Processing, Operations, Quality, Policy etc. Each year a consolidated list of number of seats available will be prepared by the University for which the admission to be made as per the process laid down in this Ordinance. (a) The ordinance conforms to University Grants Commission Gazette (Minimum Standards and Procedure for award of M.Phil/Ph.D Degrees) Regulations, 2016 (b) If the Ph. D degree is awarded by a foreign university the university considering such a degree shall refer the issue to a standing committee constituted for the purpose of determining the equivalence of the degree awarded by the foreign university (c) The University shall not conduct the Ph.D programmes through distance education Mode. (d) Part time Ph.D will be allowed provided all the conditions mentioned in the extant Ph.D regulations are met. 2. Definitions This Ordinance may be called Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Ordinance titled ‘Governing Programmes Leading to Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) Degree’. (a) “University” shall mean Shri Vishwakarma skill University (b) Degree” shall mean the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) (c) “Ph.D.” shall mean Doctor of Philosophy. (d) “Dean” shall mean Dean of the concerned Faculty, appointed by the University. (e) Faculty” shall mean a skill Faculty of the University. (f) “COE” shall mean Controller of Examinations of the University. (g) “RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the Faculty (h) “SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee (i) “Minimum Registration Period” shall mean the minimum period for which a candidate must be registered, prior to the date of submission of the Thesis.

[PAGE 3]
(j) “Registration Period” shall mean the length of period commencing with the date of registration at the University and ending on the date of submission of the Thesis, counting out any gaps. (k) “Research Scholar” shall mean a person registered for the Ph.D. degree who has got his research plan duly recommended by SFRC and has been and approved by Skill Council and has paid the required fee. (l) “Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University approved by Skill Council on the recommendation of SFRC to guide/supervise the research work of the student. (m) “Joint Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University/ industry other than the Supervisor, and approved by Skill Council on the recommendation of the SFRC to guide/supervise the research work of the Research Scholar (n) “RDC” shall mean Research Degree committee (o) “ URS” shall mean University Research Scholarship 3. Jurisdiction/Locale The degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) shall be granted by the SVSU, Dudhola in all four Faculty of University. Subject to general guidelines issued by the Skill Council and overall control of the administration, the research activities for Ph.D. programmes regulated by the various Post- Graduate Boards of Studies and Research (a) A department of a faculty or a centre of university can conduct research programmes for the award of Ph.D degree (b) The Skill Faculty Research Committee(SFRC) shall supervise all academic matters related to the Ph.D Degree. The applicants/scholars shall be classified in the following ways: - On the basis of the time devotion to the Ph.D. programme I. Full time II. Part-time On the basis of fellowship/scholarship I. A research scholar getting SVSU fellowship/scholarship II. A research scholar receiving fellowship/scholarship from outside organizations such as CSIR, UGC, QIP, DST, AICTE etc. III. Non fellowship/scholarship Preference will be given to full time candidates. 4. Composition and Functions of various committees

[PAGE 4]
The two committees namely RAC and SFRC to be constituted as per the constitution mentioned with specific responsibilities Definitions “SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee for monitoring all the academic matters related to PhD program “RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the Faculty 4.1 Skill Faculty Research Committee- Each Skill Faculty/Department and centre offering Ph.D programme shall have a Skill faculty research committee (SFRC). All faculty members of the SFRC must be qualified to be supervisors. The dean of the respective faculty will approve the committee (a) Dean of the Faculty/Head of the Department- Chairperson (b) One Professor other than Faculty/department (Nominated the Vice Chancellor) (c) Two Senior members from Industry with recommendation of Vice Chancellor (d) All Professors of the Faculty/Department (e) Two Associate Professors of the Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two years (f) Two Assistant Professors of the Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two years Where Skill Faculty/ departments have strength of less than ten teachers all members who are eligible to be supervisors, will be members of Skill Faculty Research Committee Provided that where no teacher is eligible to be the Head, the Teacher-in-charge if eligible to be research(Ph.D)supervisor will convene the meetings of the SFRC as its convener, failing which the members of the SFRC will elect one of the members present at the meeting as Chairperson of the committee for the said meeting. The meetings of the SFRC may be held at least once every 3 months. It may held earlier depending on the urgency of individual cases.

[PAGE 5]
Research Advisory committee (RAC) constitution The Research Advisory committee (RAC) shall consist of the following: (a) Supervisor of the Scholar- Convener of RAC (b) Two external expert to be nominated by Vice Chancellor I. One from Industry II. One from Academics 5. Eligibility 5.1 A candidate for admission to the course of Ph.D. program shall have Master’s degree or a professional degree declared equivalent to the master’s degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade B in the UGC 7 point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale where ever grading system is followed or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency which is approved/recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statuary authority in that country for the purpose of assessing, accrediting or assuring quality and standards of educational institution. The equivalence of the degree will be decided by the PG Board of Studies in the University. 5.2 A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-able and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time, or for those who had obtained their Master's degree prior to 19th September, 1991. The eligibility marks of 55% (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) and the relaxation of 5% to the categories mentioned above are permissible based only on the qualifying marks without including the grace mark procedures. 5.3 Candidates who have cleared the M.Phil course work with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) and successfully completing the M.Phil. Degree shall be eligible to proceed to do research work leading to the Ph. D. Degree in the same Institution in an integrated programme. A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/differently-abled and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time.

[PAGE 6]
5.4 A person whose M.Phil. dissertation has been evaluated and the viva voce is pending may be admitted to the Ph.D. programme of the same Institution. The candidates who appeared in regular master’s level examination in the current session may also appear in the entrance test. But they must submit the proof of having passed the examination on the pre-designated date before admission to the Pre-Ph.D. course. 5.5 Candidates possessing a Degree considered equivalent to M.Phil. Degree of an Indian Institution, from a Foreign Educational Institution accredited by an Assessment and Accreditation Agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country for the purpose of assessing, accrediting or assuring quality and standards of educational institutions, shall be eligible for admission to Ph.D. programme. 5.6 The state reservation policy shall be followed in Ph.D. Admission. 5.7 For Skill Faculty of Management : Master's Degree or any other degree recognized equivalent thereto in Business Administration or Economics or Commerce or in allied subjects or Two years Post Graduate Diploma in Management recognized as equivalent to MBA by AICTE/AIU or Graduates having passed their final examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India with 55% marks (50% for SC/ST candidates of Haryana) in aggregate or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed). 5.8 For any inter-disciplinary research, Ph.D. degree will be awarded by the Faculty of the concerned Department in which the candidate is registered. 5.9 A candidate provisionally registered for Ph.D. shall be required to attend classes for one semester for a Pre-Ph.D. course work. 5.10The candidates who are awarded fellowship by the university/outside agency to carry out Ph.D. work, shall be required to stay at university headquarter for whole duration of the fellowship. The Dean of the Faculty concerned will certify the stay of the candidate. 6. Additional Eligibility Conditions for Part-Time Ph.D. Admission a) The applicant should be an employee of an educational institute/organization/Industry and must produce No Objection Certificate (NOC) from his employer on or before the interview. b) The candidate proves to the satisfaction of the SFRC that his/her official duties permit him to devote sufficient time to research.

[PAGE 7]
c) The candidate proves to the satisfaction of the SFRC that facilities for pursuing research are available at his place of work in the chosen field of research. d) He will be required to visit university (on working days) to meet his supervisor in the department at least twice in a month and such visit is to be reported to the chairman- SFRC for record. 7. Rules for Full Time Ph.D. The full time PhD program will have following three categories of scholars admitted to program (a) A research scholar getting University fellowship / scholarship. (b) A research scholar receiving fellowship / scholarship from outside organizations such as CSIR, UGC, QIP, DST, AICTE etc. (c) Self-financed- A scholar who does not receive financial help like scholarship/assistant ship from university, or from any other source during his Ph.D. program. 8. Enrolment 8.1 The enrolment to Ph.D. programmes in the teaching departments shall be made once/twice a year through the entrance test conducted by the Controller of Examination. The cut-off date for this will be decided on year to year basis. The applications in the prescribed form shall be submitted by candidates to the Academic section. 8.2 The number of vacancies in various Faculty will be given on university website and mention of the same will be made in the admission notices for information of the candidates. At the time of notifying the vacancies in newspapers, the number of vacancies for registration shall be indicated course wise. 8.3 The eligible candidate shall apply for admission in the prescribed form downloadable from the university website. 9. Duration of the Programme: 9.1 Ph.D. programme shall be for a minimum duration of three years, including course work and a maximum of six years. 9.2 The women candidates and Persons with Disability (more than 40% disability) may be allowed a relaxation two years for Ph.D. in the maximum duration. In addition, the women candidates may be provided Maternity Leave/Child Care Leave once in the entire duration of

[PAGE 8]
Ph.D. for up to 240 days. This period shall not be counted in the total duration for the submission of Ph.D Thesis. 9.3 No candidate shall join any other regular course of study or appear at any examination while conducting research. The Vice-Chancellor may, however, allow a candidate to appear in any examination or to attend a course which is conducive to his or her research and is of minor nature, including improvement of any previous result. 10. Announcements and Application for Ph.D Programme 10.1 The University shall notify well in advance, on the website and through advertisement in at least two (2) newspapers, of which at least one (1) shall be in the regional language, the number of seats for admission, subject/ discipline-wise distribution of available seats, criteria for admission, procedure for admission, examination centre(s)where entrance test(s) shall be conducted and all other relevant information, applications for admission to Ph.D. Programmes of its various faculties, for the benefit of candidates. 10.2 A candidate seeking admission to Ph.D. programme can procure the prescribed application from the University and send the completed form to the University at the address mentioned in the announcement and/or application form. The application form may also be filled on-line if and when so announced and/or advised by the University. The candidate must indicate the faculty to which the admission is being sought. In case a candidate wishes to apply to more than one field(s) of research or faculty, separate choices, preference wise, may be mentioned in application form. 11. Procedure for Admission The procedure for admission to Ph.D. programme shall consist of the following steps: - I. Receipt of applications II. Scrutiny of the applications by the concerned Faculty III. An Entrance Test shall be qualifying with qualifying marks as 50%. The syllabus of the Entrance Test shall consist of 50% and 50% shall be subject specific, including skill courses designed as per Qualifications Package of NSQF Level 10. The Entrance test will be of 2 hours’ duration having 80 questions of one mark each of concerned discipline / branch. Entrance Test shall be followed by an interview to be organized by the department concerned. IV. The candidates who have qualified UGC-NET (including JRF)/UGC-CSIR NET (including JRF)/SLET/GATE/teacher fellowship holder or have passed M.Phil. programme will be exempted from appearing in the entrance test for Ph.D. Programme. However, they will have to appear in the interview as per schedule. The candidates who have qualified JRF(valid)/NET

[PAGE 9]
(Valid for two years from the date of issue of certificate) conducted by the UGC/CSIR/DBT/ICMR and ASRB. The condition of validity of duration of two years of issuance of NET certificate will not be applicable on the regular teachers working in State Universities/Central Universities and Govt./Govt. Aided Colleges. Regular teachers of SVSU and Foreign students are also exempted from entrance test V. At the time of interview, doctoral candidates are expected to discuss their research interest/area through a presentation before duly constituted SFRC. VI. Only the predetermined number of students will be admitted to Ph.D. programme in a Faculty with provisional registration. VII. As per UGC Notification on Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil./Ph.D. Degrees (2nd Amendment) Regulations 2018 dated 16th October 2018, the following should be ensured in the selection process of M.Phil./PhD. for those candidates who qualify in the entrance examination: For the selection of candidates who qualify in the entrance examination, a weightage of 70% to the entrance test and 30% to the performance in the interview/viva-voce shall be given. The provisional admission of candidates shall be made, based on written test (70 marks), followed by interview and presentation (30 marks). The date of written test will be announced through the website of the University. The syllabus of the Entrance Test shall consist of 50% of research methodology and quantitative techniques and 50% shall be subject specific. The Entrance Test shall be qualifying with 50% marks. The entrance test shall be conducted by the examination branch. VIII. If number of candidates who qualified the entrance test for admission to Ph.D. programme are less than the seats advertised against respective category of reservation in a Department/School, the condition of qualifying of entrance test by the candidates may be relaxed from 50% to 45% (from 45% to 40% for SC/ST candidates of Haryana) by the Vice- chancellor on the recommendation of respective Chairperson/Director before start of admission of the qualified candidates. In such cases, the Chairperson concerned will notify the change to the candidates well in time before the start of admission. IX. Vacant seats for Ph.D. admission due to non-availability of candidates having 50% marks (45% in case of SC/ST candidates of Haryana) in entrance test may be filled up by the Chairperson within week of first/normal counseling for admission as per category merit of the remaining candidates who qualify after relaxation as given in clause (viii) above, if allowed by the Vice-chancellor.

[PAGE 10]
X. In case the number of applicants who qualify the Entrance Test are more than the number of seats available, then the merit list for admission to Ph.D. Programme shall be prepared by Department/ School according to the following criteria: a) 30% weightage of marks in the Master’s Degree Examination. b) 20% weightage of marks in the Bachelor’s Degree Examination. c) 50% weightage of marks in the Entrance Test. XI. The interview/viva voce shall also consider the following aspects, viz. whether: a. the candidate possesses the competence for the proposed research; b. the research work can be suitably undertaken at the Industry/ Institution/College; the proposed area of research can contribute to new/additional knowledge XII. The candidates recommended by the SFRC and approved by Vice Chancellor, shall be admitted to the Ph.D programme of the University. They shall be required to submit the necessary documents for scrutiny and preparation of Registration Return. Upon due processing, the candidates will receive the University enrolment number. XIII. The result of Entrance Test will be considered for admission to Ph.D. only during the session in which the test was held and the same will not be considered in the subsequent year(s), that is, if a candidate wants to be considered for admission next year, he/she will have to appear for the entrance test afresh. 12. Fee Deposit A Research Scholar shall be required to pay the fees in the manner prescribed by the University. 13. Registration 13.1 After the approval of the Research Plan by the SFRC and payment of fees prescribed by the University, a candidate shall be formally registered as a Research Scholar with effect from date on which the Skill Council accorded its approval and the candidate was allotted enrollment number. A Research Scholar shall be required to renew his registration every semester/ year and pay the fees in the manner prescribed by the University. 13.2 After the approval of the skill Council, the provisional admission of the research scholar will be confirmed and he/she will be finally registered for the Ph.D. program. Consequently, the provisional enrolment number allotted to the research scholar shall become his/her Registration Number.

[PAGE 11]
13.3 In case of research scholars with UGC JRF, the date of joining/provisional admission in the department for Ph.D. programme shall be considered as date of registration to upload their master data on UGC portal for the purpose of grant of fellowship. 14. University Research Scholarship (URS) 14.1 Each Faculty will have two scholarships every year. The amount of this scholarship shall be Rs.15,000/- per month. It will be tenable for two years in the first instance. This scholarship may be extended only for a period not exceeding one year i.e. 3rd year by the Vice- Chancellor on the recommendations of the Committee consisting of the Dean, Chairperson of the Department and the Supervisor of the scholar. Each scholar receiving this scholarship shall also receive a contingency grant of Rs. 5000/- per annum. This scholarship will be awarded on the basis of the merit of the qualifying examinations. In addition to the above, three University Research Scholarships or 20% of the allocated URS whichever is higher will be awarded to SC/ST candidate. 14.2 This scholarship shall be awarded on the recommendations of the Selection Committee consisting of the Dean of the Faculty and two members of the Faculty nominated by the Vice- Chancellor. 14.3This scholarship will be awarded from the date of joining in the Faculty before registration including pre-registration period. However, the amount will be payable after his/her registration in the department. Failure to get registered will disqualify the candidate for this scholarship. 14.4The scholar will be required to do whole-time research work under approved guidance of his/her supervisor and shall not be allowed to take financial benefit (funds/fellowships) from any other source during this tenure. 14.5 The scholar will be required to submit a certificate of progress and satisfactory work, duly countersigned by his/ her Supervisor and recommended by the concerned Dean to the Registrar every six months. The continuance of the fellowship would be subject to satisfactory progress of work of the Scholars. 14.6 The scholar shall complete the full period of research work. In the event of a scholar discontinuing or giving up his work before the expiry of two years, or before the expiry of the extended period, if extension was allowed, for no valid reason he shall be required to refund to the University the entire amount received by him. 14.7 Provided that in very exceptional cases this condition may be waived by the Vice-Chancellor in consultation with the Dean Academics, the Dean of the Department concerned and the

[PAGE 12]
Supervisor. The scholar shall, execute a Bond with the University in the form prescribed for the purpose giving surety of any of the following: - (i) A permanent employee of this University. (ii) A person possessing property in the jurisdiction of Faridabad Court (mentioning the details of property). (iii)A permanent employee of the Government. 14.8 Provided that the Vice-Chancellor may, on the recommendation of the Dean of the Faculty grant a person who was awarded a University Research Scholarship, leave not exceeding six months and allow him to resume the scholarship on the expiry of this leave to complete the remaining tenure of the scholarship. 14.9 Provided further that the Vice-Chancellor may, in very hard and exceptional cases, allow extension in leave for a period not exceeding three months to a Research Scholar to prosecute academic pursuits only. 14.10 Reports on the satisfactory progress on the work of the scholar shall be submitted to the skill council Dean of Faculty concerned once every six months. The continuance of the Scholarship would depend on the satisfactory progress of work of the Scholars. a. Financial assistance shall not be provided where the research scholar is availing paid study leave b. Foreign students must show a proof of financial support for the duration of the Ph.D. enrolment 15. Leaves 15.1 Leave for a maximum of 15 days in a year in addition to general holidays may be allowed to a Research Scholar by the Dean of the Faculty on the recommendation of the Supervisor. The scholar will not be entitled to any vacations. No other leave of any kind with scholarship will be admissible to a Research Scholar. This period shall be counted in the total duration for submission of thesis. 15.2 On the recommendation of the supervisor and the SFRC, University may permit the research scholar to be away from the SVSU to pursue research work related to Ph.D work for not more than two semesters after completion of the coursework. 15.3 The supervisor must report absence from research work due to any reason to the SFRC. Negligence of research work or any other acts of indiscipline must be recorded and reported to the concerned SFRC. On receipt of complaint the SFRC may take appropriate action against the research scholar including cancellation of the registration.

[PAGE 13]
16. De-registration Only in exceptional cases the scholar may be allowed to de-register from the PhD program after successful completion of minimum duration of three years on the recommendation of the SFRC. The research scholar shall be allowed to re register with in a period of three years. The PhD thesis should be submitted within such a period that the period of initial registration and re-registration does not exceed the duration of the Ph.D programme. 17. Contingency Grant 17.1 The contingency grant of Rs. 5000/- per student, per annum may be utilized on apparatus, chemicals, books and journals, Photostat copies, macro films, typing, stationery, postage and field work/ travel needed in connection with the approved research projects with the approval of the Dean of the Faculty on the recommendations of the Supervisor. 17.2 The contingency grant is not intended for making payment of examination and other fees. 17.3 The non-consumable articles purchased out of the contingency grant will be first entered in the accession/ stock register of the Library/ Store of the concerned department and then the articles will be issued to the research scholar (s) so as to ensure that on expiry/ termination/ relinquishment of scholarship, these are returned to the Department 17.4 For all expenditure out of the contingency grant, a certificate from the supervisor duly countersigned by the Dean of the Faculty concerned to the effect that the expenditure incurred is in furtherance of the approved research work will be necessary. 17.5 Travelling allowances for approved field work/ travel in connection with the research work will be admissible according to the rules of the university. 17.6 The unspent balance, if any, out of the contingency grant of the previous year will not be carried forward to the next year at any cost. 17.7 The grant will be released in the instalments in a year i.e. at the rate of Rs. 1500/- half yearly on submission of the bills duly recommended and certified by the Supervisor and the Dean of the Faculty concerned. The bills of each instalment will be accepted in the same period for which the grant has been allocated. 17.8 A full time PhD program may be converted to a part time program at the completion of two years if he/she satisfies the following conditions. No scholarship will be provided on part time conversion. (i) The request from the Research Scholar in this regard is made to Dean (Academics) through proper channel and he/she has already passed the prescribed course work.

[PAGE 14]
(ii) His/her progress reports by his/her supervisor(s) for the previous two years are found satisfactory. (iii)In case, he/she has been offered a regular job in some organization, then he/she may obtain a 'no objection certificate' from his/her employer to continue his/her research work as a part- time Research Scholar at SVSU, UST and enclose along with his/her request for the purpose. (iv) The Research Scholar may be allowed to register as part-time candidate only after the recommendation of the SFRC and approval of Dean, Supervisor. (v) The full-time Research Scholar after conversion to part-time Research Scholar shall not be considered for any scholarship/stipend/contingency/grant teaching assistantship as meant for full-time Research Scholar (vi) All rules and regulations-of part-time programme shall be applicable for such Research Scholar Further, once changed to part time candidature; the concerned Research Scholar cannot revert back. 18. Part time Ph.D. for sponsored candidates A part time Ph.D. program will be for candidates with minimum 15 years of experience in reputed industry / organization having R & D facilities, Govt. R&D Departments / National Research Laboratories / Units of Government / Quasi Government / Public sector etc. Separate guidelines for admission will be issued for these seats whenever these are published/advertised. 19. Course Work, Research Plan and Short Synopsis 19.1 Course Work and Credits After having admitted, each provisionally registered Ph.D. student shall be required to pass pre- Ph.D. course work of one semester (minimum attendance required is of 75%). The course work shall include a compulsory course on: (i) The course work shall be a prerequisite for Ph.D. preparation. (ii) All courses prescribed for Ph.D. course work shall be in conformity with the credit hour instructional requirement and shall specify content, instructional and assessment methods. They shall be duly approved by Skill Council. (iii)The Department where the scholar pursues his/her research shall prescribe the course(s) to him/her based on the recommendations of the Research Advisory Committee (RAC), as stipulated for the research scholar.

[PAGE 15]
(iv) All candidates admitted to the Ph.D programme shall be required to complete the course work prescribed by the Department during the initial one or two semesters (6 months or 1 year) after joining the university. (v) Each course is assigned a total number of credits, which is based on the scientific content and the number of hours of lecture per week. The course work shall comprise of: (i) Research Methodology (3 Credits) (ii) Quantitative Methods and Computer Applications / Quantitative Techniques (3 Credits) (iii)One or more Elective Subject(s) related to the area of research (3 Credits) (iv) Research and Publication Ethics (RPE) (2 Credits) (v) Literature Survey (1 Credit). (vi) Seminars for Short Synopsis (1 Credit) (vii) Seminar for Pre-Ph.D Submission (1 Credit) 19.2 The course work will also include reviewing of published research in the relevant field. The Departments should submit the report in their SFRC in this regard. 19.3 For admission to Pre-Ph.D. course work the candidate will be required to deposit fee as prescribed by the university. 19.4 Candidates already holding M. Phil. degree and admitted to the Ph.D. programme, or those who have already completed the course work in M.Phil. and have been permitted to proceed to the Ph.D. in integrated course, may be exempted by the Faculty from the Ph.D. course work. All other candidates admitted to the Ph.D. programme shall be required to complete the Ph.D. course work prescribed by the Department. 19.5 A Ph.D. scholar has to obtain a minimum of 55% of marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade/CGPA in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) in the course work in order to be eligible to continue in the programme and submit the thesis. 19.6 Regular classes for Research Methodology and Quantitative Techniques shall be held as per schedule notified by the Dean of the Faculty concerned. However, the third Subject pertaining to the area of research shall be taken by the Supervisor / Joint Supervisor during this period. 20.Cancellation Rules If the candidate is not able to submit the fees, the accounts section should send his/her name to the respective department and department will issue a letter to the candidate. If the candidate does not

[PAGE 16]
submit fees after two consecutive semesters his/her name may be stuck off from the rolls of University after the recommendation of SFRC chairperson and supervisor. (i) If the candidate fails to submit his/her progress report after every semester, after two consecutive such semesters, SFRC may recommend the cancellation of admission. (ii) In case two consecutive six monthly reports are unsatisfactory, SFRC may recommend for cancellation of the registration. (iii)If the supervisor feels that the candidate lacks interest and motivation for research after completion of course work, he can recommend his/her case to the SFRC and SFRC can recommend for cancellation of admission. (iv) Finally, the Skill Council, on the recommendation of the SFRC, may cancel the registration of a research scholar. (v) The Vice-Chancellor may cancel the registration of a candidate at any time, after the issue of a due show-cause notice, on disciplinary or any other grounds, which are considered to be not in consonance with the dignity and behaviour of a research scholar or non-payment of hostel or any other dues. 21. Allocation of Supervisor/Joint-Supervisor 21.1 Any regular Professor of the University with at least five research publications in refereed journals and any regular Associate/Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. degree and at least two research publications in refereed journal may be recognized as supervisor. Provided that in areas/discipline where there is no or only a limited number of refereed journal, the SFRC may relax the condition of publication with reasons recorded in writing. 21.2Only a fulltime regular teacher of the concerned university can act as a supervisor. The external supervisors are not allowed. However joint supervisor can be allowed in inter disciplinary areas from other departments of the same institute or from other related institutions with the approval of the RAC. 21.3 Research Supervisor/Joint-supervisor who is a Professor, at any given point of time, cannot guide more than Eight (8) Ph.D. scholars. An Associate Professor as Research Supervisor can guide up to a maximum of six (6) Ph.D. scholars and an Assistant Professor as Research Supervisor can guide up to a maximum of four (4) Ph.D. Teachers working in SVSU and approved faculty in recognized colleges affiliated to this university with Ph.D. degree and three year post Ph.D. experience with proven research record in the form of 05 research publications shall be permitted to

[PAGE 17]
act as supervisor on the recommendation of skill council. The Vice-Chancellor may permit these limits to exceed marginally on special ground to be recorded. No fresh registration will be allowed by Skill Council to teachers who proceeded on extra ordinary leaves. 21.4The allocation of research supervisor for a selected research scholar shall be decided by the department concerned depending upon the number of scholars per supervisor, the available specialization among the supervisors and research interest of the scholars as indicated by them at the time of interview/Viva voce. 21.5 In special circumstances viz. in the case of subjects of interdisciplinary/ inter speciality nature, the SFRC may recommend a joint-supervisor who can be from within the University or from other universities/ Industry as well, for reasons to be recorded. The qualifications for a joint supervisor will be the same as prescribed for the single supervisor except in the case of an eminent scholar. The teacher to act as joint-Supervisor is required to submit his consent on the prescribed proforma (Annexure: E) available on the University Website to the Chairperson of the concerned Department at the time of submission of synopsis by the research scholar for consideration of SFRC. 21.6Scientist/Researchers/Faculty/ Experts from industries working on regular basis in various IIT/NIT/Research Laboratories/Industrial Establishments (which are associated with SVSU) /Central University/ state Govt. University/govt. aided institutions/Directorate of technical Education (DTE) however, be permitted to act as Joint supervisor. The prior consent of the joint-supervisor shall be obtained before registration. 21.7 The faculty member to be appointed as supervisor or co-supervisor shall not be a spouse/blood relation of the research scholar to be registered for Ph.D. course. 21.8 In case of relocation of Ph.D. women scholar due to marriage or otherwise, the research data shall be allowed to be transferred to the university to which the scholar intends to relocate provided all other conditions in these regulations are followed in letter and spirit and the research work does not pertain to the project secured by the parent institution/supervisor from the funding agency. The scholar will however give the credit to the parent guide and the institution for the part of research already done. 21.9 The teacher(s) on extra ordinary leaves may continue to guide the candidates registered for Ph.D. programme under his/her supervision in the university. If the supervisor(s) of a candidate leave(s) the university before the completion of the research work or is/are otherwise unable to see the work through, due to some valid reasons, the Vice-Chancellor may allow change of the supervisor, as

[PAGE 18]
chosen by the candidate, on the recommendation of the RAC and SFRC, if it is considered that the change of supervisor is in the interest of the completion of the work. 21.10 Addition/ deletion/ change of Research Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor would be considered by SKILL COUNCIL on recommendation of Research Advisory Committee(RAC) and SFRC under following circumstances/ reasons, on request obtained from the Research Scholar and / or Supervisor(s): a) Death of Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor. b) Resignation of the Supervisor / Joint Supervisor from the University. c) Attainment of age of seventy years by Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor. d) Any other specific reason to the satisfaction of Skill Council. 22. Evaluation and Assessment Methods 22.1 Research Scholar shall submit progress report along with the presentation in every six months before RAC. This Committee shall have the following responsibilities: I. To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research II. To guide the research scholar to develop the study design and methodology of research III. To periodically review and assist in the progress of the research work of the research scholar. 22.2 The six monthly progress reports shall be submitted by the Research Advisory Committee to office of Dean of the faculty with a copy to the research scholar twice in a year. If the work of a research scholar is found unsatisfactory at any stage as reported by the supervisor(s), the Research Advisory Committee (RAC) shall give him or her an opportunity to explain his/her position and make suitable recommendation including de-registration. 22.3 The evaluation of Pre-Ph.D. examination will be done internally. The result will be declared within one month of Pre-Ph.D. examination. Reappear examination for Pre. Ph.D. course shall be conducted along with the other semester exams. The candidates attaining less than the minimum qualifying CGPA will have to qualify with minimum CGPA requirement for confirmation of registration within two years.

[PAGE 19]
22.4 A student admitted to the Ph.D. Programme shall be required to clear the course work within the first two consecutive semesters. The name of a student admitted to pre-Ph.D./Ph.D. programme may be removed from the roll of the University after two semesters at the recommendation of the concerned SFRC chairperson. 22.5 The presentation of Synopsis by the candidate will be before SFRC of the Faculty as per the schedule decided by the department concerned. In the synopsis student should mention the broad area of research and tentative topic of the research. The final topic of the research will be submitted by the student before six months of submission. The SFRC will consider and approve the synopsis of all candidates and shall confirm the registration by the date of approval by Skill Council. 22.6 The SFRC will adopt the following procedure: While considering the applications for registration, the SFRC will consider the synopsis submitted by the candidates and shall clearly state whether in its opinion: i) The subject proposed for research is suitable or not. ii) The supervisor(s) is/are eligible or not. The SFRC may either reject the synopsis or may suggest suitable changes in the synopsis for reasons to be recorded. The candidate is required to resubmit the revised synopsis after having incorporated the suggested changes within a period of time specified by the SFRC 22.7 Modification in Topic of Research: A candidate may, normally not later than one year after his registration, modify the topic of his/her subject on the recommendations of the SFRC. However, minor modifications may be allowed later on, on the recommendations of the SFRC and with the approval of the Vice Chancellor. 23. Plagiarism Policy The University shall evolve a mechanism using well developed software and gadgets to detect plagiarism and other forms of academic unethical practices. Each thesis will go through the plagiarism check that will be verified by the University library before submission. The certificate of verification given by the library has to be submitted along with the thesis at the time of thesis submission in the examination branch. The thesis has to be submitted within 30 days from the date of plagiarism check The thesis must be a piece of original research work characterized either by the discovery of new facts or by a fresh interpretation of facts or theories. In either case it should show the research scholars

[PAGE 20]
capacity for critical examination and judgment. It must be satisfactory as far as its language and presentation are concerned. Similarity checks for exclusion from Plagiarism (a) All quoted work reproduced with all necessary permission and/or attribution (b) All references , bibliography table of content, preface and acknowledgements (c) All generic terms laws standard symbols and standard equations (d) Note: The research work carried out by the researcher shall be based on original ideas which shall include abstract, summary, hypothesis, observations, results, conclusions and recommendations only and shall not have any similarities. It shall exclude a common knowledge or coincidental terms up to Fourteen(14) consecutive words 24. Pre-submission of Thesis 24.1 A Pre-Ph. D submission is an essential requirement to assess the contents of the Thesis before the committee. On completion of the research work and complying with the submission requirements, the candidate shall submit to Supervisor(s), a copy of the extended synopsis (Annexure A) of his research work. 24.2 If supervisor(s) is / are satisfied that the research work has been completed as per pre-defined objectives and the research scholar meets the eligibility criteria for Pre-Ph.D. submission including published work (two research papers in reputed journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars during the period of registration in the form of acceptance letter or the reprint), he/she/they shall forward the same with the certificate (Annexure B) through the supervisor to the dean of the faculty concerned. 24.3 One research paper in any SCI, Scopus, Web of sciences journals and one research paper in a reputed journal in the form of acceptance letter or reprint. 24.4 The type of publication/ presentation shall be in the field/ sphere of topic of Ph.D. Only those research publications, in the Journal / Proceedings of the Conferences, would be considered for scoring system where the name of the Research Scholar is written as an author along with that of Supervisor(s). Only full published papers will be considered for scoring however in case of presentation the scholar shall submit the presentation certificate with SVSU affiliation along with supervisor. The Research Scholar must mention the affiliation to the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University in the research publication. For example, the specification of the Research Scholar as an author in the Research Publication may be as under:

[PAGE 21]
i. (Name of the Research Scholar), Research Scholar Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudhola, Haryana ii. (Designation, Name of the Employer of the Research Scholar) (If applicable) iii. Name and Designation of Supervisor(s) and affiliation 24.5 The extended synopsis and other concerned papers of the research scholar shall then be forwarded to Dean of the faculty for verification as per checklist (Annexure C). The file would then be routed back within three working days. Dean of faculty concerned would formulate a 3-5 member committee of the concerned department comprising of at least 2 Professors, 1 Associate Professor and 1 Assistant Professor possessing Ph.D. degree for conduct of Pre- PhD presentation. 24.6 Ph.D. presentation, the date and time for the same would be fixed in consultation with supervisor (except on holidays and vacations). Pre-Ph.D. presentation of the research scholar shall be in the presence of faculty members, research scholars and PG students. One external member/ expert may be nominated for the same in case number of cadre is not available in the department. The committee would submit report of the pre Ph.D. presentation as per format (Annexure D) to the concerned chairperson along with extended synopsis and submit its recommendations to the dean of faculty as under: 24.7 If the committee is fully satisfied with the research work completed by the research scholar, through SFRC it will recommend to allow the research scholar to write his / her thesis and submit the final draft within 6 months from the date of clearance by SFRC. The thesis can be submitted only after two months from the date of recommendation by SFRC. If a candidate fails to submit the thesis in stipulated period, then extension in submission period can be provided by the Vice- Chancellor on the recommendation of SFRC. If the research scholar even then fails to submit his / her thesis within a stipulated period of 8 months, he / she will have to submit the thesis after making Pre-Ph.D. submission presentation again. 24.8 If committee is not satisfied with the research work done by the research scholar, it will advise the research scholar to make the specific changes / undertake additional research work and resubmit the extended synopsis. 24.9 Notice for Pre-Ph.D. submission presentation must be issued by the office of Dean of the faculty for date in consultation with the concerned chairperson and supervisor, at least 7 working days in advance. 24.10 The final report of the committee and all other papers will be submitted to Dean of Faculty for records.

[PAGE 22]
25. Submission of Thesis 25.1 When a research scholar is ready to submit his or her thesis for evaluation, he or she shall obtain a certificate from his or her supervisor to this effect and shall apply to the Dean of Faculty. 25.2 A candidate shall submit his/her thesis in English/Hindi medium. 25.3 The Ph.D. candidate shall submit Four hard bound (format given in Annexure A-1) and soft copy (preferably in PDF) stored on CD to the concerned department. Three hard bound copies shall be submitted after the final viva. 25.4The candidate should also submit to the Dean six copies of the summary of the thesis each indicating how far the thesis embodies the results of his or her own research or observation and in what respect his or her investigations appear to him or her to advance the study of the subject of his or her thesis. The candidate may submit the copies of the summary within 15 days of the meeting of SFRC in which Pre submission seminar presentation was given, so that COE may get the examiners appointed in anticipation of the submission of the thesis. The summary may be sent to the examiners while seeking their consents for evaluation of the thesis. 25.5The SFRC shall approve a panel of 10 specialists (examiners) of Professors rank either working or retired from Govt. / Govt. aided Institute / Govt. Universities / IITs / NITs/ Central R & D Organization / Govt. Departments/ Industry in the relevant field, out of which 5 specialists (examiners) will be from local states (Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and NCR Delhi) and 5 from outside states and country. However, the examiner shall not be from University / Institute of the Supervisor / Candidate and will not be related to them. Member of SFRC shall be avoided as an examiner / evaluator of the thesis. The SFRC is free to include or change the names of the examiners.” 25.6 The Dean of the Faculty shall send this examiner’s list (sealed envelope), duly signed by the members of the SFRC, along with the copies of the thesis and summary to the office of controller of examination after verifying the check list (see Annexure 2), 25.7 The COE shall forward this examiner’s list to the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor shall appoint finally three examiners, out of which at least one should be outside the state and one should be outside the country. The Vice-Chancellor is authorized to appoint examiners from outside the panel forwarded by the SFRC. The examination branch shall seek the consent of the examiners, if any of the examiner(s) show his/her inability to evaluate the thesis then the consent may be obtained from other examiner(s) approved by the Vice-chancellor. If the reply regarding the consent is not

[PAGE 23]
received within a month then the examination branch can communicate with the other examiner after the approval of the Vice-Chancellor. 25.8If any examiner does not reply even after three months, two reminders should be given to him at the gap of one month by COE and after that the thesis may be sent to the next examiner after the approval of Vice Chancellor. The entire process of evaluation of Ph.D. thesis should be completed within a period of six months from the date of submission of the dissertation/thesis. The evaluator will state categorically whether in his or her opinion: a. Thesis should be accepted for the award of Ph.D. Degree OR b. It should be referred to candidate for presenting it again in revised form; OR c. It should be rejected. 25.9The evaluator shall state reasons for approval or rejection of the thesis. If he or she recommends re-submission /rejection, he or she shall specifically indicate what modifications he or she wants the candidate to effect and incorporate in the thesis. If all the examiners recommend the award of degree, they may also give in their report a set of questions which they would like to put to the candidate at the time of viva-voce. In case two of the examiners rejects the thesis the Vice Chancellor will send the thesis for evaluation to the another examiner. If only one of the examiners recommends re- submission with modification, in that case the candidate shall be asked to modify the thesis and submit the same after having carried out all the modifications within a year with a certificate from the supervisor(s) that all the modifications have been carried out as suggested by the examiner. 25.10As per the UGC regulations 2016, the public viva voce of the research scholar to defend the thesis shall be conducted only if the evaluation reports of the external examiners on the thesis are satisfactory and include a specific recommendation for conducting the viva- voce examination. If one of the evaluation report of the external examiner is unsatisfactory and does not recommend viva voce the university shall send the thesis to another external examiner out of the approved panel of examiner and viva voce shall be held if the report of the latest examiner is satisfactory. If the report of the latest examiner is also unsatisfactory the thesis shall be rejected and the scholar shall be declared ineligible for the award of the degree 25.11For the PhD thesis evaluation the corresponding actions suggested in the following table may be followed based on the comment/observations received from the external examiners

[PAGE 24]
Scenario Examiner 1 Examiner 2 Examiner 3 Suggested action Event1 Accept Accept Accept Viva Voce Event2 Accept Accept Minor correction Revise thesis in consultation with supervisor followed by viva voce Event3 Accept Accept Reject Thesis to be sent to fourth examiner whose decision will be final and binding Event4 Accept/Resub mission Reject Reject Cancellation of Registration 25.12A re-submitted thesis shall be examined by the examiner(s) who evaluated the original thesis unless any of them is unable or unwilling to do so in which case substitute(s) shall be appointed from the panel by the Vice-Chancellor. The examiner(s) for the revised thesis will only see whether the objections raised have been met or not. 25.13A candidate whose thesis is rejected shall not be registered again for the Ph.D degree with the same topic. 25.14 The examiner for a thesis shall indicate in their report whether the thesis is fit for publication in its original or modified form. In the latter case, he shall make definite suggestions for improvement. 25.15 If all examiners recommend award of the degree, the candidate shall be examined through viva-voce examination by one of the examiners, to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. If all the examiners are unable or unwilling to conduct the viva-voce examination another person will be approved for the purpose by the Vice-Chancellor from the panel already approved by PG Board of Studies. 25.16 The viva-voce examination shall be conducted by the external examiner and will be held in the Faculty concerned at SVSU University unless otherwise approved by the Vice-Chancellor. All the teachers including supervisor/ co-supervisor and research scholars will be invited to attend the viva- voce examination. The viva-voce examination will be based on the questions given by all the examiners. The candidate will openly defend the thesis in viva-voce examination. The viva-voce examination of the candidate should be on any working day and Saturday in consultation with the examiner and supervisor. Notice for Ph.D. viva must be issued at least 7 working days in advance.

[PAGE 25]
25.17After the viva-voce examination, the reports of all the examiners shall be placed before the research degree committee consisting of the Vice-Chancellor, the Dean of the Faculty concerned, chairperson of the university teaching department and one of the supervisor/co-supervisor. It shall be the function of the committee to consider the reports and to recommend to the Skill Council, whether; a. The degree be awarded OR b. The thesis be revised and resubmitted for re-examination; OR c. The thesis be rejected 25.19Further, provisional degree shall be issued from the date of meeting of research degree committee (RDC) to such students in whose cases the research degree committee has recommended for award of Ph.D. Degree. Along with the degree, the university shall issue a provisional certificate certifying to the effect that the degree has been awarded in accordance with the provisions to the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedures for the award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulation, 2016. 25.20 Controller of Examination, Dean Academics & Dean of the faculty may also be added in Research Degree Committee (RDC) and COE will act as Member Secretary of this Committee. The Vice Chancellor shall be the chairperson of RDC. Further, COE will issue notification of the candidates whose Ph. D. degree is recommended by RDC within 7 working days of RDC meeting to all concerned. 25.21After finalization of the award of Ph.D. Degree, one copy will be sent to the University Library and the other to the Departmental Library. The third copy may be returned to be candidate. Further, the university shall submit a soft copy of the Ph.D thesis to the UGC within a period of thirty days, for hosting the same in INFLIBNET, accessible to all institutions/universities. 25.22No thesis shall be published without the prior permission of the university. The research scholar may apply to the chairperson of the department/Dean of Skill Faculty for permission to publish his or her thesis. The chairperson will place the request before the SFRC which shall satisfy itself that the thesis is in publishable form. It will be guided by the reports of the examiners. A certificate will be obtained from the supervisor to the effect that the necessary improvements suggested by him or her and the examiners have been duly carried out. All the published thesis will be put on university website and will include catalogue and abstract of the thesis. 25.23 The Skill Council, on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor, shall have the right to withdraw the degree if plagiarism or duplication or any other form of malpractice is detected at any stage and to initiate such further action as it deems fit. Provided that the Vice-Chancellor shall get

[PAGE 26]
the complaint in the matter investigated confidentially and shall give the accused an opportunity to explain before he makes his recommendation on the matter to the Skill Council. There shall be no limitation of time for this action of the Skill Council. 26. Fee Structure: Fees to be paid by Pre-Ph.D. or Ph.D. candidate during the Ph.D. programme will be as laid down by the University from time to time. Fee payable at the time of admission in Pre Ph.D. Programme: (i) Fee for Pre Ph.D. Course: Rs 10000/- (ii) Registration fee: Rs 3000/- one time. (iii)Tuition fee: 10000/- per semester. (iv) Tuition fee (for University Employees): 5000/- per semester. (v) Caution Money (Refundable): 5000/- one time. Full fee is required to pay for that half year in which thesis is submitted by the scholar. During the registration period, the Ph.D. Scholars are required to deposit their semester & other fees on or before 30th September and March. Otherwise late fee for delayed payment will be as under: (i) up to 90 days: 1000/- (ii) from 91 days to semester end: 2000/- (iii)For more than one semester: 5000/ per semester Full fee is required to pay for the semester up to pre-submission. Caution money / fee deposited for Ph.D. programme by the scholars will be refunded by the Accounts Branch of the university as per procedure of UG/PG courses on the recommendations of Chairperson / Director of the department / school/Dean of Faculty concerned. 27. Remuneration Remuneration payable to each examiner will be 3000/- for evaluation of thesis and 5000/- for viva- voce. Remuneration for expert in pre-submission will be Rs. 2,000/- Annexure – A

[PAGE 27]
Guidelines for Submission of Extended Synopsis The Extended Synopsis should broadly indicate the work done, objectives proposed and achieved, methodology adopted and outcomes in chapter wise description. In general, the following should be the sequence of Extended Synopsis: - 1. Cover Page 2. Certificate by Supervisor 3. Content Page 4. Summary/Introduction 5. Research Objectives 6. Organization of proposed thesis (chapter wise) 7. Contribution 8. Scope for further work The Extended Synopsis should typically be 15 to 20 pages (excluding title pages). It should be neatly typed on both sides in Times New Roman Font of size 12 with 1.5 spacing. The general guidelines are as follows: 1. Synopsis must be unambiguous. Title of the Synopsis must be as approved by RAC/SFRC. 2. The objectives and methodology of the research should be started in bullet form/itemized. 3. The entire text should be grammatical correct and must be at a reasonable language level. 4. The Synopsis must clearly mention the expected outcomes of the research. 5. Synopsis must be accompanied with a Certificate duly signed by Supervisor and countersigned by Chairperson concerned testifying therein that the entire text of the Synopsis has been read thoroughly and it is as per the guidelines.

[PAGE 28]
Annexure – B Certificate from research supervisor(s) stating that (i) Two research papers in reputed journals from which one research paper is in any SCI, Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars during the period of registration in the form of acceptance letter or the reprint). (ii) There is prima facie case for the submission of the thesis/Extended Synopsis and the thesis does not contain any work, which has been previously submitted for the award of any degree anywhere. (iii) Undertaking from the candidate as well as research Supervisor(s) shall mention that: “The thesis is based on the individual, original work of the candidate, which is previously unpublished research work”. (iv) It shall be ensured by the research supervisor(s) that: the thesis shall not contain any material that infringes the copyright of any other individual or organization and does not hurt the sentiments of any individual(s) or religion(s). The information such as text, tables, equations, diagrams, figures, charts, graphs, and photographs taken from sources such a published work, like research papers, books, periodicals, web Sites or other sources has been cited appropriately. Further, the opinions expressed or implied in the thesis shall be entirely of the candidate.

[PAGE 29]
Annexure – C Check List for Students/Academic Section at the time of pre submission 1. Minimum duration of three years, including course work and a maximum of six years. 2. Research Scholar should submit progress report every six months. Minimum 06 satisfactorily progress report is required for thesis submission. Copy of every progress report should be send periodically to academic section for records. 3. Pre-Ph.D. course work certificate /DMC with a 55% or above marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 7-point scale. 4. 6 copies of extended synopsis. 5. Two research paper (along with the cover page and contents list of that issue) from which one research paper is in any SCI, Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars during the period of registration. The candidate should be the main author in the paper. The List of Publication out of thesis should be divided into three categories: (i) List of Published papers (ii) List of accepted papers (iii)List of communicated papers The format of the list is given below S.No Title of the paper Publisher Impact Referred Whether Remarks along with factor or Non- you paid volume, Issue No, Referred any money year of or not for publication publication 6. Patents, if any

[PAGE 30]
Annexure-D Pre-submission Seminar Report Thesis examination is unable to commence until the pre-submission seminar has been completed. Candidate details: Name of the candidate Student Registration No: Faculty: Department: Family Name: Title: Supervisor/s: Date of Registration: / / Title of the thesis

[PAGE 31]
Section A: Committee Report Members of the Committee S No Name Designation and Department 1 2 3 4 5 Oral presentation On what date was the oral presentation given? Did the candidate provide a satisfactory oral presentation of at least 20 minutes? Yes No Did all members of the review panel attend the oral presentation? Yes No Written submission Any additional requirements of the faculty and/or Department? Comments: Overall feedback (If insufficient space please attach further information to this form) Comment on the quality of the content and delivery of the candidate’s written and oral presentation.

[PAGE 32]
Committee shall give specific Recommendation: Whether the candidate is allowed to submit his/her thesis as per the presentation of the work or modification are required. The research work is of high standard, novel and sufficient for the submission of the thesis Yes/No Signatures of committee members

[PAGE 33]
Annexure A-1 Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Dudhola Faculty of …………………………………… FORMAT TO BE USED FOR Preparation of Ph.D. Thesis 1. ARRANGEMENT OF CONTENTS: The sequence in which the thesis material should be arranged and bound should be as follows: 1.Cover page 2.Inner cover page 3.Dedication (optional) 4.Candidate’s Declaration 5.Certificate of the supervisor 6.Acknowledgement 7.Abstract 8.Table of contents 9.List of tables 10. List of figures/graphs 11. List of photographs 12. List of abbreviations 13. Body of the thesis 14. References 15. Appendices 16. Brief bio data of the research scholar 17. List of publications out of thesis

[PAGE 34]
2. PAGE DIMENSION, TYPING AND BINDING SPECIFICATIONS a. The dimension of the thesis should be in A4 size b. The Thesis should be hard bound with cover page printed on it in specified format. c. Photographs, if necessary, should be suitably mounted on the same quality paper as the thesis. d. The typing of cover page, title page, declaration of candidate, certificate of supervisor and name of chapters should be only on one side of the paper whereas the other printing should be on both sides of the paper. e. The chapter numbers should be indicated in Roman. f. Three copies of the thesis in soft bound and soft copy stored on CD. In case of candidate being supervised by more than one supervisor, appropriate number of additional copies must be submitted. g. The colour of the binding (in hard) would be Red. The cover should have the material indicated in the item ‘b’ above printed on it and should be written with golden ink h. The general text shall be typed in the font style ‘Times New Roman’ and Font size 12. Use 1.5 spacing between the regular text and quotations. i. FONT REGULAR TEXT – Times Roman 12 pts. And normal print CHAPTER HEADING- Times Roman 16 pts., bold print and all capitals SECTION HEADINGS- Times Roman 12 pts., bold print and all capitals SUBSECTION HEADINGS – Times Roman 12 pts., bold print and leading capitals i.e. only first letter in each word should be in capital. Single line spacing should be used for typing the general text. j. The margins for the regular text should as follows: Front Side - LEFT = 1.50”, RIGHT = 1.00”, TOP = 1.00”, BOTTOM = 1.00” Back Side - LEFT = 1.00”, RIGHT = 1.50”, TOP = 1.00”, BOTTOM = 1.00” 3. PREPARATION FORMAT 3.1 Cover Page - A specimen copy of the cover page of thesis is given in Appendix-1. 3.2 Inner Cover Page - A specimen copy of the inner cover page of thesis is given in Appendix-2. 3.3 Dedication - A specimen copy is given in Appendix-3. 3.4 Candidate’s Declaration – A specimen copy of Declaration certificate is given in Appendix-4.

[PAGE 35]
3.5 Certificate of the supervisor – A specimen copy of Title page of certificate is given in Appendix-5. The certificate shall carry the supervisor’s signature and shall be followed by the Supervisor’s name, academic designation department etc. 3.6 Acknowledgment – A specimen copy of Acknowledgement certificate is given in Appendix-6. 3.7 Abstract – Abstract should be one or 2 pages synopsis of the thesis typed in one and a half line spacing, Font Style Times new Roman and Font Size 12. A specimen copy abstract of the thesis is given in Appendix-7. 3.8 Table of contents – The table of contents should list all material following it as well as and material which precedes it. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing the matter under this head. A specimen copy of the Table of Contents is given in Appendix-8 3.9 List of Tables – The list should use exactly the same captions as they appear above the tables in the text. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing the matter under this head. A specimen copy of the list of Tables is given in Appendix-9. 3.10 List of Figures – The list should use exactly the same captions as they appear below the figures in the text. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing the matter under this head. A specimen copy of the List of Figures is given in Appendix-10

[PAGE 36]
3.11 List of photographs –A specimen copy of the List of photographs is given in Appendix- 11. 3.12 Body of the thesis - The chapters may be broadly divided into 5 parts (i) Introductory chapter including over view of the concerned area and organization of the thesis (ii) Literature review (iii) Scope and objective, methodology of the thesis (iv) Chapters developing the main theme of the thesis work (v) Conclusion and future scope of work. The main text will be divided into several chapters and each chapter may be further divided into several divisions and sub-divisions.  The chapter title is the first-order heading. A chapter may be divided into section each of which has a section title (second-order heading). For example, in Chapter 3, the sections will be numbered 3.1, 3.2, etc. If at all possible, do not further subdivide a section.  Use subsections (third-order headings) only if unavoidable. For instance, in section 3.2, the subsections will be numbered 3.2.1, 3.2.2, etc. Do not further subdivide beyond this point, for example, subsection 3.2.2 may not be further divided into sub-subsections 3.2.2.1, 3.2.2.2 etc.  Tables and figures in a chapter should be placed in the immediate vicinity of the reference where they are cited.  Footnotes should be used sparingly. They should be typed single space and placed directly underneath in the very same page, which refers to the material they annotate. 3.13 References – A specimen copy of Bibliography is given in Appendix 13. 3.14 Appendices – A specimen copy of Appendices is given in Appendix 14. 3.15 Brief bio data of the Ph.D. scholar – A specimen is given in Appendix 15. 3.16 List of Publications out of thesis –A specimen copy of the list of publication out of thesis is given in Appendix-16.

[PAGE 37]
Annexure-A2 Check List for Students/R&D Section at the time of submission 1. Minimum duration of three years, including course work and a maximum of six years. 2. Research Scholar should submit progress report every six months. Minimum 06 satisfactorily progress report is required for thesis submission. Copy of every progress report should be send periodically to academic section for records. 3. Pre-Ph.D. course work certificate /DMC with a 55% or above marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 7-point scale. 4. 6 copies of extended synopsis. 5. Two research paper (along with the cover page and contents list of that issue) from which one research paper is in any SCI, Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars during the period of registration. The candidate should be the main author in the paper. The List of Publication out of thesis should be divided into three categories: (i) List of Published papers (ii) List of accepted papers (iii) List of communicated papers The format of the list is given below S.No. Title of the paper Publisher Impact Whether Whether Remarks along with factor Referred you paid volume, Issue No, or Non- any money year of referred or not for publication publication

[PAGE 38]
6. Plagiarism report (not more than 10%) and certificate by supervisor and Chairman. 7. Thesis submission fee of Rs. 3500/- 8. No Dues Certificate from all the concerned departments/sections.

[PAGE 39]
APPENDIX 1 & 2 TITLE OF THESIS <Font Size 18<>1.5-line spacing> THESIS <Font Size 14><1.5-line spacing> submitted in fulfilment of the requirement of the degree of <Font Size 14<>Italic> DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY <Font Size 16> to <Font Size 14 <>Italic> Shri Vishwakarma Skill University <Font Size 14<>Italic> by <Font Size 14 <>Italic> NAME OF THE CANDIDATE <Font Size 14> Registration No. Under the Supervision of <Font Size 14 <>Italic>

[PAGE 40]
NAME OF THE SUPERVISOR DESIGNATION OF SUPERVISOR <Font Size 14<>1.5-line spacing> logo Name of the Department Faculty of _________________ Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Dudhola, Palwal, Haryana, India <Font Size 12><1.5-line spacing> MONTH, YEAR <Font Size 14, Bold>

[PAGE 41]
APPENDIX 3 DEDICATION <Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> to My Parents/……

[PAGE 42]
APPENDIX 4 (A typical specimen of Acknowledgement) DECLARATION <Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> I hereby declare that this thesis entitled <TITLE OF THESIS> by <NAME OF STUDENT>, being submitted in fulfilment of the requirements for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in <NAME OF THE BRANCH> under Faculty of____________________ of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudhola, during the academic year ________, is a bona fide record of my original work carried out under guidance and supervision of NAME OF SUPERVISOR, DESIGNATION, DEPARTMENT and has not been presented elsewhere. I further declare that the thesis does not contain any part of any work which has been submitted for the award of any degree either in this university or in any other university. (Name of Student) Registration No. _________

[PAGE 43]
APPENDIX 5 CERTIFICATE <Font-Style Times New Roman, size – 16> <Font Style Times New Roman, Font size 12> This is to certify that this Thesis entitled <TITLE OF THESIS> <by NAME OF STUDENT>, submitted in fulfilment of the requirement for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in <NAME OF THE BRANCH> under Faculty of____________________ of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dudhola, during the academic year_______, is a bonafide record of work carried out under my guidance and supervision. I further declare that to the best of my knowledge, the thesis does not contain any part of any work which has been submitted for the award of any degree either in this university or in any other university. (Signature of Supervisor) Name of Supervisor DESIGNATION Department of _________ Faculty of____________________ Dated:

[PAGE 44]
APPENDIX 6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT <Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my Supervisor <Name of Supervisor> / Joint Supervisor <Name of Joint Supervisor> for giving me the opportunity to work in this area. It would never be possible for me to take this thesis to this level without his/her innovative ideas and his/her relentless support and encouragement. ………. ………. (Name of Student) Registration No. __________

[PAGE 45]
APPENDIX 7 ABSTRACT <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12>

[PAGE 46]
Appendix 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS <Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> a. Candidate’s Declaration b. Certificate of the supervisor c. Acknowledgement d. Abstract e. Table of Contents f. List of Tables g. List of Figures h. List of Photographs i. List of Abbreviations

[PAGE 47]
Contents /Body of Thesis (Suggested format for chapters, which may be modified as per requirement) 1. Introduction 2. Overview of Area 3. Literature Survey Review 4. Motivation 5. Problem Formulation 6. Objectives of the Thesis 7. Methodology 8. Organization of the Thesis 9. Development of Main Work 10. Result and Discussions 11. Conclusion and scope for future work

[PAGE 48]
APPENDIX 9 LIST OF TABLES <Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> Table Page No Table 1.1 Table1.2 Table 2.1 <Title of Table 1.1> <Title of Table 1.2> <Title of Table 2.1>

[PAGE 49]
APPENDIX 10 LIST OF FIGURES/GRAPHS <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> Figure Page No. Figure 1.1 <Title of Figure 1.1> Figure 2.1 <Title of Figure 2.1> …………… ……………

[PAGE 50]
APPENDIX 11 LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> Photograph Page No. Photograph 1.1 <Title of Photograph 1.1> Photograph 2.1 <Title of Photograph 2.1> …………… ……………

[PAGE 51]
APPENDIX 12 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold>

[PAGE 52]
REFERENCES <Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> [1] A. Rezi and M. Allam, "Techniques in array processing by means of transformations, " in Control and Dynamic Systems, Vol. 69, Multidemsional Systems, C. T. Leondes, Ed. San Diego: Academic Press, 1995, pp. 133-180. [2] S. M. Hemmington, Soft Science. Saskatoon: University of Saskatchewan Press, 1997. [3] N. Osifchin and G. Vau, "Power considerations for the modernization of telecommunications in Central and Eastern European and former Soviet Union (CEE/FSU) countries," in Second International Telecommunications Energy Special Conference, 1997, pp. 9-16. [4] D. Sarunyagate, Ed., Lasers. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996. [5] O. B. R. Strimpel, "Computer graphics," in McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology, 8th ed., Vol. 4. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1997, pp. 279-283. [6] K. Schwalbe, Information Technology Project Management, 3rd ed. Boston: Course Technology, 2004. [7] L. Vertelney, M. Arent, and H. Lieberman, "Two disciplines in search of an interface: Reflections on a design problem," in The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design, B. Laurel, Ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1990. Reprinted in Human-Computer Interaction (ICT 235) Readings and Lecture Notes, Vol. 1. Murdoch: Murdoch University, 2005, pp. 32-37. [8] E. P. Wigner, "Theory of traveling wave optical laser," Physical Review, vol.134, pp. A635-A646, Dec. 1965.

[PAGE 53]
APPENDIX 14 APPENDICES <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12>

[PAGE 54]
APPENDIX 15 BRIEF PROFILE OF THE RESEARCH SCHOLAR <Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12>

[PAGE 55]
APPENDIX 16 LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OUT OF THESIS <Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> Body Text <Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> List of Published Papers Sl. Name of Volume Year Pages No Title of Paper Journal where No. & Issue . published 1. 2. 3. 4.

[PAGE 56]
List of Accepted Papers Sl. No. Name of Journal where accepted Volume & Issue Title of Paper No. Year 5. List of Communicated Papers Sl. Title of the Paper Name of Present Year No. Journal Status 6.

[PAGE 57]
Annexure E Proforma for approval of appointment of Joint-supervisor of a Research Scholar in Ph.D. programme at SVSU. (To be submitted to the Chairperson of the concerned Department at the time of submission of Synopsis by the Research scholar). 1. Name of Co-supervisor (in capital letters) :_______________________________________________ 2. Designation :_______________________________________________ 3. Department / Discipline :_______________________________________________ 4. Name of Organization/University :_______________________________________________ 5. Academic Qualification :_______________________________________________ 6. Specialization :_______________________________________________ 7. No. of Publications (Attach Bio-Data with :_______________________________________________ list of publications _______________________________________________ 8. No. of scholars under Supervision / :In GJUS&T:__________ Outside GJUS&T:______________ Co-supervision 9. NOC issued by the Employer : ______________________________________________ of Co-supervisor (Annexure-1) 10. Name of Research Scholar & Department : ______________________________________________ 11. Topic of Research :__________________________________________________________________ (Signature) (Signature)…………………………… Name of supervisor: __________________ Name of Co-supervisor:________________________ Designation :______________________ Designation :____________________________ Department :______________________ Email ID : ___________________________ Email ID : ______________________ Contact No. : ___________________________ Contact No. : ______________________ Justification to be given by the Supervisor for appointment of Joint-supervisor : (In case of shortage of space, attach justification in separate Annexure) _____________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________ Recommendations of SFRC of the concerned Department Eligible & Recommended stating whether the person is eligible for appointment Not Recommended as Joint-supervisor as per Ph.D. ordinance of SVSU (mark ✓whichever is applicable) Signature (Chairperson, SFRC)


--- DOCUMENT: Recritment-rules-for-non-teaching staff.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
SHRIVISHWAKARMASKILLUNIVERSITY (State University enacted under the Government of Haryana Act 25, 2016) SVSU 3T:SVSU/AB/2023/ f2-g:24-10-2023 Academic Brench SVSU

[PAGE 2]
i | P a g e Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY (Established by the State Legislature Act 25 of 2016) HARYANA (INDIA) ‘Recruitment Rules’ Non-Teaching/ Technical Employees

[PAGE 3]
ii | P a g e Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 INDEX Sr. No. Description Page(S) Pages 1 Short title and application of rules 1 2 Appointing authority 1 3 Method of recruitment 1 4 Establishment Committee 2 5 Constitution of departmental recruitment / promotion committee 2 6 Reservation of posts 2-3 7 Appointment and joining time 3 8 General trance and conditions of recruitment 3-4 9 General rules for direct recruitment 4-5 10 General rules of promotion 5-7 11 Deputation 7 12 Seniority of direct recruits 7-8 13 Seniority of promotes 8 14 Inter-se-seniority of direct recruits and promotes 8 15 Inter-se-seniority of clerk/clerk-cum DEO /store keeper 8 16 Inter-se-seniority of Peon/Mali/ Cook/Sweeper(s) 8 17 Seniority of persons absorbed in service on being deputation 9 18 Relaxation 9 19 Annexure-1 (Details of sanctioned post) 10-12 20 Annexure-II (Eligibility criteria for direct recruitment and promotion against sanctioned post) 13-47

[PAGE 4]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 1 | P a g e Recruitment Rules for Non-Teaching/ Technical Posts of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 1. Short Title and Application of Rules 1.1 These rules may be called the ‘Recruitment Rules’ for SVSU Non-Teaching/ Technical Employees, hereinafter called as ‘Rules’. 1.2 These Rules shall apply to all appointments of non-teaching posts on regular/ tenure/ deputation /promotion basis by the University as the case may be. 1.3 Provision for Existing employees. Every person holding a post under the University on the commencement of these Rules shall, on such commencement, be deemed to have been appointed under the provisions of these Rules and shall be entitled to such pay and allowances as drawn by him/her immediately before such commencement. 1.4 The details of existing non-teaching/ technical posts are available at Annexure-I. 1.5 The detailed eligibility criteria, qualifications, experience etc. regarding recruitment to the posts created in the university in concurrence with State Govt. are given in Annexure-II 2. APPOINTING AUTHORITY The Appointing Authority in respect of various posts in the University shall be as under: Authority Posts Executive Council Appointments to Group A and Group B posts (non-teaching) shall be made by the Executive Council, on the recommendation of the Establishment Committee Vice- Chancellor Appointments on Group C and D employees shall be made by the Vice Chancellor on the recommendation of the Departmental Recruitment/ Promotion Committee 3. METHOD OF RECRUITMENT: The recruitment to various posts shall be made by the following methods: • Direct Recruitment • Promotion • Deputation

[PAGE 5]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 2 | P a g e 4. ESTABLISHMENT COMMITTEE: 4.1 The Composition of Establishment Committee shall be as prescribed in the Statute of the University for Group A & B Non-Academic posts; 4.2 All the recommendations shall be made by the Establishment Committee in order of merit; 4.3 The recommendations of the Establishment Committee shall be submitted to the Appointing Authority for consideration and approval. 5. CONSTITUTION OF DEPARTMENTAL RECRUITMENT/ PROMOTION COMMITTEE: 5.1 The Departmental Recruitment/ Promotion Committees shall be constituted as follows for Group C & D Non-Academic posts: 1. Registrar or nominee of the Vice-Chancellor Chairperson 2 One expert, not in service of the University, nominated by the Vice-Chancellor Member 3 Head of the concerned Branch/Office/Department Member 4 A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwD, (if case of any of these categories candidate is to be considered) to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of above members of the Committee doesn’t belong to said category. Member 5 Branch Head (Establishment) Member- Secretary Provided that the Vice-Chancellor, at his/her discretion, may include any other senior member of the Branch/office concerned (in the absence of the Head) at the time of promotion to any post in the University 5.2 A person shall be disqualified for sitting as member of Departmental Recruitment/ Promotion Committee, if he/she is related to any candidate or there is any conflict of interest in case of his/her association with the process. 5.3 The Quorum for the Departmental Recruitment/ Promotion Committee shall be two third of the members. 6. RESERVATION OF POSTS: 6.1 The University shall strictly follow the reservation Policy of the State Govt. of Haryana. A reservation roster will be maintained and updated as per the instructions of the State Govt. issued from time to time. The University will follow the State Govt. guidelines in respect of reservation/ relaxation/ concessions to various categories in recruitment/ promotions etc., with respect to age, qualifying marks, experience/ fees, etc. as amended from time to time.

[PAGE 6]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 3 | P a g e 6.2 A candidate belonging to any reserved category who has been selected on the same standard as applied to the General candidates and who appears in the general merit list, such candidate will be adjusted against unreserved post on basis of his/her merit. Note: Nothing in these Rules shall affect the reservations, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the instructions issued by the State Government of Haryana of Haryana from time to time. 7. APPOINTMENT AND JOINING TIME 7.1 The appointment of a candidate shall be subject to the verification of character and antecedents, educational qualifications, experience and medical fitness. Until the verification of character and antecedents report is received, the appointment shall be treated as provisional. In case the report(s) with regard to his/her conduct, character and antecedents, etc., is found to be unsatisfactory, the appointment shall be cancelled/ terminated forthwith. 7.2 An offer of appointment issued by the University should clearly specify the period (which shall not normally exceed one or two months) after which the offer would lapse automatically, if the candidate fails to join within the specified period. 7.3 If, however, within the specified period, a request is received from the candidate for extension of time, it may be considered by the University on the merit of each case as deemed appropriate. 8. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RECRUITMENT 8.1 A candidate who is already in service shall submit his/her application through proper channel along with vigilance clearance certificate from the competent authority. However, he/she may send an advance copy of his/her application and in case his/her application is not forwarded due to whatever reasons till the time of written test or interview as the case may be, he/she, should produce a "No Objection Certificate along with the Vigilance Clearance Certificate in a sealed cover" from the employer. 8.2 It shall be the responsibility of the candidate to ascertain his/her own eligibility for the post for which he/she is applying in accordance with the prescribed qualifications, experience, etc., and submit his application duly filled-in, along with the desired information and documents as per the advertisement. Suppression of factual information, supply of fake documents, providing false or misleading information or canvassing in any manner on the part of the candidates shall lead to his/her disqualification. In case, it is detected at any point of time in future, even after appointment, that the candidate was not eligible, his/her appointment shall be liable to termination forthwith as per this clause. This must be clearly mentioned in the offer of appointment.

[PAGE 7]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 4 | P a g e 8.3 Acceptance of documents submitted by an applicant shall be subject to verification by the competent authority at any point of time even after joining the employment. If any document is found to be false/fake/incorrect either before or after appointment, the document shall be summarily rejected and action may be initiated against the candidate, which shall lead to cancellation of his/her appointment, as the case may be. 8.4 The person appointed against any post shall be governed by the Act/ Statutes/ Ordinances/ Rules and Regulations of the University, as amended from time to time and any other rule/resolution specifically prescribed for maintaining the conduct of the employees by the Executive Council of the University. 8.5 The terms and conditions of appointment shall be communicated to the selected candidates in the form of ‘Offer of Appointment’. If the candidate does not accept the terms and conditions mentioned in the offer of appointment within the stipulated time, the offer shall be treated as withdrawn. 8.6 The selected candidates shall be required to perform duties as per the Rules of the University, as amended from time to time. The University shall be free to assign any duty as per the exigency of the situation at any time even during non-working hours/ holidays which the employee shall have to perform without fail to avoid any disciplinary action. 9. GENERAL RULES FOR DIRECT RECRUITMENT: 9.1 Appointment to any post by direct recruitment shall be made through open competition and the brief details of the post will be advertised in two national dailies newspaper. The advertisement along with complete details will also be placed on the University website. The applicants will be given at-least twenty-one days to apply from the date of publication. 9.2 The number of posts, pay level and age limits for the posts is subject to revision from time to time. 9.3 The reservation roster will be maintained as per reservation policy of the State Government of Haryana notified/ revised/ amended from time to time. At the time of any fresh advertisement, the roster will be updated first and the backlog of vacancies will be taken into account to fill the same in the first instance. 9.4 In case, any reserved vacancy remains unfilled and the post is required to be filled up in the interest of the University, it will be filled up as per procedure notified by the State Government of Haryana. 9.5 In case, the University receives less than three applications for a specific post/vacancy advertised, the said post/vacancy will be re-advertised. If even after re-advertisement, the number of applications received remains less than three then the post may be filled following the due selection process. 9.6 The selection criteria for the respective post will be defined along with the advertisement and the revision/updation, if any, will be notified before the advertisement.

[PAGE 8]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 5 | P a g e 9.7 The requisite experience, whenever mentioned is to be considered only after acquiring the essential qualification. 9.8 Relaxation in age, experience, qualifying marks, etc., will be granted to the candidates belonging to the Schedule Caste/Backward Classes/PwD/EWS or any other reserved category for reserved posts as per the State Government of Haryana guidelines with the approval of the competent authority. 9.9 The waiting list, if any, for the post(s) shall remain valid up to one year from the date of approval of the recommendations by the Competent Authority and will be considered for filling up the resultant vacancy during this period arising due to promotion/resignation/removal /demise of the candidate recruited through the same advertisement. 9.10 If any post couldn’t be filled within one year of the advertisement due to any reason, the post may be re-advertised, if deemed appropriate by the Competent Authority to invite more applications so as to have wider choice for selection. However, the applicants of the previous advertisement will be considered with updated experience/ qualification without application fee. 10. GENERAL RULES OF PROMOTION: 10.1 Any appointment by promotion shall be made on “Seniority cum Merit” basis and the seniority alone shall not be the sole criteria for promotion. The efficiency of the employee and his/her suitability for the post of promotion will be the main factors for consideration. 10.2 In case, no internal employee is eligible/ suitable for promotion to any post and it requires filling up of the said post by the University, then the same may be filled through direct recruitment/deputation. 10.3 At the time of Promotion of any employee, the following criteria must be followed: 1) At least 70% of the ACRs of the employee must be “Good” or above during the last 10 years or in his/her qualifying service. However, greater weightage shall be given to the ACRs on the higher post from which further promotion is being considered. 2) At the time of promotion, a latest report on work and conduct of employee will be sought from the Head of respective Branch/Office/Department, which should be “Good” or above, along with recommendations whether the employee should be considered for promotion. 10.4 In case there are any adverse remarks in his/her ACR(s) during the period of consideration of record, the case of promotion of such employee shall not be considered until and unless the competent authority expunges such adverse remarks. If the competent authority does not expunge such remarks or does not upgrade the score after review of his/her performance as per procedure, the employee concerned shall not be promoted till he/she achieves the benchmarks as prescribed under para 10.3(a) of these Rules.

[PAGE 9]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 6 | P a g e 10.5 Any major penalty shall constitute a bar in the way of adjudging the suitability of an employee for promotion to higher post. However, minor penalty of "censure" or “warning”, whether on personal file or not, would not constitute a bar in the way of adjudging the suitability of an eligible person on the basis of his seniority for the purpose of promotion. 10.6 Whenever the University intends to fill any promotional post, the Establishment Branch will put up the cases of eligible candidates to the competent authority for placing before the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) along with requisite documents for consideration. However, where multiple posts are defined as feeder post (e.g. in case of promotion to the post of Clerk employees serving on all Group- D posts may be considered), the Establishment Branch will invite the applications from the respective eligible employees and will proceed further accordingly. 10.7 It shall be ensured that the information furnished to the DPC is accurate and in proper order and a certificate to this effect should be duly signed by the officer designated for the purpose. The following cases shall be brought to the notice of the DPC: 1) Employees in the consideration zone under suspension; 2) In respect of whom a charge-sheet has been issued and disciplinary proceedings are pending; and 3) In respect of whom prosecution for a criminal charge has been pending in the Court of Law. The findings of the DPC as recorded in its proceedings in respect of such cases, shall be kept in a sealed cover. On conclusion of the case(s), the sealed cover will be opened. In case the person concerned is completely exonerated of the charges leveled against him/her, such person shall be entitled to promotion with retrospective effect, the date from which a person junior to him/her was promoted, if he/she is otherwise considered fit for promotion on the basis of overall record. 10.8 The DPC will consider a panel of three eligible employees for one post adding one additional number in the panel for subsequent post i.e. a panel of 04 persons against 02 posts and 05 persons against 03 posts and so on. The DPC shall submit its report along with specific recommendations to the competent authority. 10.9 The meeting of the Departmental Promotion Committee shall ordinarily be convened at least once a year, which shall depend upon the availability of vacancies. However, if the vacancies still remain, the DPC may meet as per the requirement of the University. 10.10 The recommendations of the DPC will be placed before the Competent Authority for consideration and approval. 10.11 The university should strictly adhere to the quota prescribed for Promotion of the eligible internal candidates as per the Recruitment Rules. In case internal candidates are not available under the promotion quota and the posts are filled up through deputation/ contract.

[PAGE 10]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 7 | P a g e 10.12 All promotions of the non-teaching staff belonging to Group ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ shall take effect from the date of joining on the respective post(s). 11. DEPUTATION: The University may fill up any post on deputation of employees from Central Govt./ State Govt. departments and Central / State Universities as per University rules / State Govt. rules with the approval of competent authority. In case the appointment is made on deputation by following the due process of selection, the incumbent may be allowed to continue for the period as prescribed by the University from time to time or till he/she attains the age of superannuation prescribed for particular post, whichever is earlier. An appointment on deputation may be made initially for a period of one year which may be extended further at the discretion of the Competent Authority subject to satisfactory performance. The University, however, shall have the right to repatriate any or all the Deputationist at any time even before the prescribed period if their performance, integrity or conduct are found to be unsatisfactory at any stage, in the opinion of the competent authority. Ordinarily, no person working on deputation shall be absorbed in any post of the University after expiry of his/her period of deputation. In case, it is decided in the interest of the University to absorb any such person, then the University may take up the matter with his/her parent organization for concurrence after obtaining the option of the employee concerned. After obtaining the consent/NOC of the parent department, the case shall be placed before the Competent Authority for a final decision. In case such person is permanently absorbed in the University, he/she shall be assigned seniority from the date of permanent absorption and the persons appointed to the service earlier to the date of his/her absorption shall rank senior to him/her in the inter-se-seniority list. 12. SENIORITY OF DIRECT RECRUITS: The relative seniority of direct recruits will be determined by the order of merit in the selection list recommended by Competent Authority for appointment to the particular post. The seniority of the candidates belonging to SC/ST and other reserved categories shall also be maintained on the basis of merit assigned to them in the selection list and the roster point of reservation shall not constitute a ground for fixation of their seniority which is merely for the purpose of recruitment against reserved quota post/vacancy.

[PAGE 11]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 8 | P a g e 13. SENIORITY OF PROMOTEES: The seniority of promoted employees shall be the same as in the feeder post from which they are promoted. However, if a person is considered unfit for promotion and is superseded by a junior, such person shall not, if he/she is subsequently found suitable and promoted, take seniority on the higher post over the junior person who stand already promoted. Thus, the person appointed by promotion as a result of an earlier selection shall be senior to those appointed as a result of subsequent selection, provided that if the Competent Authority adjudges such superseded person as suitable for promotion from retrospective effect under the provision of rule 10.7(3) of these rules, he/she shall regain his/her seniority on the higher post above the person junior to him/her in the feeder post, who was earlier promoted to higher post on the date when he/she was superseded because of a pending charge-sheet/disciplinary case against him/her. 14. INTER-SE-SENIORITY OF DIRECT RECRUITS AND PROMOTEES: The inter-se-seniority of Direct Recruits and Promotees shall be determined in accordance with the dates of their order of appointments in a recruitment year irrespective of their dates of joining on the particular post in the university. 15. INTER-SE-SENIORITY OF CLERK/CLERK-CUM-DEO/STORE KEEPER: The inter-se-seniority of Clerk/Clerk-Cum-DEO /Store Keeper(s) shall be determined in accordance with the dates of their order of appointments in a recruitment year irrespective of their dates of joining on the particular post(s) in the university. 16. INTER-SE-SENIORITY OF PEON/MALI/COOK/SWEEPER(S): The inter-se-seniority of Peon/Mali/Cook/Sweeper(S) shall be determined in accordance with the dates of their order of appointments in a recruitment year irrespective of their dates of joining on the particular post(s) in the university. In case incumbent of any of the above posts is on contract basis, he/she will not find placement in the inter-se-seniority. 17. SENIORITY OF PERSONS ABSORBED IN SERVICE ON BEING DEPUTATION: In case a person who was initially taken on deputation and later on permanently absorbed in the University, he/she shall be assigned seniority from the date of permanent absorption and the persons appointed to the service earlier to the date of his/her absorption shall rank senior to him/her in the list of inter-se-seniority.

[PAGE 12]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 9 | P a g e 18. RELAXATION: In the interest of the University if it is expedient to promote an employee to higher post in his/her hierarchy, who has successfully completed his/her period of probation, the Competent Authority may for the reasons to be recorded in writing either generally or in any individual case relax the experience up to one year on the merit of each case.

[PAGE 13]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 10 | P a g e Annexure -1 Non-Teaching Posts as per State Pay Scale Sr. No. Name of the Post Number of the posts Pay Structure Group 1. Controller of Examination 01 FPL – 14 (144200- 218200) A 2. Deputy Finance Officer/ Controller 01 FPL – 12 (78800-197200) A 3. Deputy Registrar 03 FPL – 12 (78800-197200) A 4. Sr. Accounts Officer 01 FPL – 11 (67700-191000) A 5. Executive Engineer (Civil) 01 FPL – 11 (67700-191000) A 6. Assistant Registrar 07 FPL – 10 (56100-177500) A 7. Resident Medical Officer 01 FPL – 10 (56100-177500) A 8. SDO (Electrical) 01 FPL – 9 (53100-167800) B 9. SDO (Civil) 01 FPL – 9 (53100-167800) B 10. Network Administrator 01 FPL – 9 (53100-167800) B 11. Website Administrator 01 FPL – 9 (53100-167800) B 12. Superintendent 08 FPL – 7 (44900-142400) B 13. Section Officer 02 FPL – 7 (44900-142400) B 14. Personal Secretary 02 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 15. JE (Electrical) 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 16. JE (Civil) 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 17. JE (Horticulture) 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 18. Law Assistant 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 19. Assistant 14 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 20. Game Organizer 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 21. Accountant 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 22. Translator 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C

[PAGE 14]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 11 | P a g e 23. Senior Scale Stenographer 03 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 24. Junior Programmer 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 25. EPBAX Assistant 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 26. Staff Nurse 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 27. Draftsman Civil 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 28. Hostel Supervisor 02 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 29. Sanitary Officer 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 30. Pharmacist 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 31. Guest House/ Hospitality Manager 01 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 32. Trainer/ Lab Technician 05 FPL – 6 (35400-112400) C 33. Electrician 01 FPL – 4 (25500-81100) C 34. Driver 03 FPL – 4 (25500-81100) C 35. Clerk/ Clerk-cum-DEO 6+17=23 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 36. Store Keeper 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 37. Medical Attendant 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 38. Restorer 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 39. Steno-Typist 02 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 40. Library Attendant 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 41. Tracer 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 42. Plumber 01 FPL – 2 (19900-63200) C 43. Hostel Attendant 02 FPL – 1 (18000-56900) D 44. Carpenter 01 DL (16900-53500) D 45. Class – IV (Peon/ Mali/Cook/ Sweeper) 33 DL (16900-53500) D 46. Technical Posts 54 DL (16900-53500) D

[PAGE 15]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 12 | P a g e Annexure –II Sr. No. 1 Controller of Examination 1. Name of the Post Controller of Examinations 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL -14 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/ deputation 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 55 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Master’s degree with at least 55% of the marks or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed. 2) At least 15 years of experience as Assistant Professor in the Academic Level 12 and above including Associate Professor along with experience in educational administration OR Comparable experience in research establishment and/ or other institutions of higher education, OR 15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years should be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post. 3) Knowledge of English & Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or higher level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 16]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 13 | P a g e Sr. No. 2 Deputy Finance Officer/ Controller 1. Name of the Post Deputy Finance Officer/Controller 2. Number of Posts 1 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level Level-12 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/ deputation 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 50 Years 7. Educational/other qualification Essential qualifications: 1) A Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant. 2) Five years appropriate experience of financial management after acquiring the degree of Chartered Accountant of which three years’ experience in the institutes of repute, preferably educational institutions. 3) Candidate should be versed in Accounts, Budgeting, planning Audit procedure etc. 4) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. OR 1) MBA (Finance/Specialization in Finance)/M.Com with 55% marks or its equivalent grade B in the UGC. 7-point scale from a recognized University. 2) Five years appropriate experience of financial management of which three years as Assistant Registrar / Senior Accounts Officer in the Pre-revised pay scale of Rs. 8000-275-13500 or an equivalent post of a University/Government of comparable experience in research establishment and /or other institutions of higher education. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. Desirable: 1) Passing of Subordinate Accounts Service (SAS) or its equivalent accounts service examination of Central/ State Government. 2) Proficiency in computer based Accounting. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 17]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 14 | P a g e Sr. No. 3 Deputy Registrar Sr. No. 4 Sr. Accounts Officer 1. Name of the Post Deputy Registrar 2. Number of Posts 03 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-12 5. Mode of Recruitment 25% by Direct Recruitment 75% by Promotion 6. Age limit fordirect recruits Below 50 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Master’s Degree with at least 55% or its equivalent grade of B in the UGC seven-point scale. 2) 5 years of administrative experience as Assistant Registrar or in an equivalent post in FPL 10. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from amongst Assistant Registrars having Bachelor’s Degree and an experience of five years as Assistant Registrar in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. 1. Name of the Post Sr. Accounts Officer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level Level-11 5. Mode of Recruitment To be deputed by the State Government of Haryana

[PAGE 18]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 15 | P a g e Sr. No. 5 Executive Engineer (Civil) 1. Name of the Post Executive Engineer (Civil) 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL- 11 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment / Promotion (By rotation) 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 50 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) First Class Bachelor’s Degree in the Civil Engineering from a recognized Institute/ University or equivalent. 2) Eight years of experience as SDO (Civil)/Assistant Engineer Civil in the relevant field from CPWD/State Government of Haryana PWD services or similar organized services/ Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or Autonomous organization/ University System or reputed Private organizations. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. Desirable: 1) Experience in construction of projects of multi-storey buildings and have experience in planning/estimation/ measurement/ tendering as per the CPWD/ State Government of Haryana PWD norms. 2) Good knowledge of CPWD/ State Government of Haryana PWD manuals, preparations/checking of estimates, drawings, structural details, bill of quantities, substitute/deviation items statements and other associated issues related with building and constructions. 3) Knowledge of Computer Aided Design (CAD) and latest Management Technology/other relevant software. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion SDO/SDE with eight years of regular services in this University with Bachelor’s Degree in the Civil Engineering from a recognized Institute/ University or equivalent. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Government of Haryana norms.

[PAGE 19]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 16 | P a g e Sr. No. 6 Assistant Registrar 1. Name of the Post Assistant Registrar 2. Number of Posts 07 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-10 5. Mode of Recruitment 25% by direct recruitment 75% by promotion 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 45 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Master’s Degree with at least 55% or its equivalent grade of B in the UGC seven-point scale. 2) 5 years’ experience as superintendent in a University /Educational Institutions/ examining body conducting public examination in FPL 7 and above. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from amongst the Superintendents having a Bachelor’s Degree with five years’ experience as Superintendent in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 20]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 17 | P a g e Sr. No. 07 Resident Medical Officer 1. Name of the Post Resident Medical Officer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification A 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-10 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit Below 45 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) MBBS Degree from any university recognized by MCI (Medical Commission of India) 2) Must be registered with Medical Commission of India/ State Medical Council. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 21]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 18 | P a g e Sr. No. 08 SDO (Electrical) 1. Name of the Post SDO (Electrical) 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-9 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment / Promotion (By rotation) 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 45 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) BE/B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with at least 55% marks from any recognized Institution/University. 2) Three years’ experience as Junior Engineer (Electrical) in the work of electrification/installation and Maintenance of electrical appliances in the construction and maintenance of buildings in the University. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion B.E./B.Tech in Electrical Engineering /AMIE with 3 years’ experience as JE (Electrical) in the work of electrification/ installation and Maintenance of electrical appliances in the construction and maintenance of buildings in the University. OR 3 Years Diploma in Electrical Engg. with 5 years’ experience as JE (Electrical) in maintenance/construction of Electrical Engineering in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 22]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 19 | P a g e Sr. No. 09 SDO (Civil) 1. Name of the Post SDO (Civil) 2. Number of Posts 1 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-9 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment / Promotion (By rotation) 6. Age limit for direct recruits Below 45 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) BE/B.Tech. in civil engineering with at least 55% marks from any recognized Institution/University. 2) Three years’ experience as Junior Engineer (Civil) in Construction and Maintenance of Buildings in this university. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion B.E./B.Tech in civil engineering /AMIE with 3 years’ experience as J.E (Civil) in the maintenance and Construction of Civil Engineering in this university. OR 3 Years Diploma in Civil Engg. with 5 years’ experience as JE (Civil) in maintenance/construction of Civil Engineering in this university. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 23]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 20 | P a g e Sr. No. 10 Network Administrator 1. Name of the Post Network Administrator 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-9 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit Below 45 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.E./B.Tech /M.Tech. /M.Sc. (Computer Science /IT)/ MCA with 55% marks OR ‘B’/’C’ Level course from DOEACC/NIELIT 2) Three years of experience in LAN & WAN design and management in Public/Private sector organization having a large numbers of nodes. Hands on expertise in ADS, DNS, DHCP, SAMBA, FTP, Apache, ISA, Exchange, Email and Proxy servers on windows and UNIX/LINUX platform. 3) Should have excellence in Cisco switches and routers configuration. Very good hands on network troubleshooting/ performance issues in Windows/LINUX systems, Backup and recovery tools, Window installations. 4) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 24]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 21 | P a g e Sr. No. 11 Website Administrator 1. Name of the Post Website Administrator 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-9 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit Below 45 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.E./B.Tech /M.Tech./M.Sc. (Computer Science /IT)/ MCA with 55% marks OR ‘B’/’C’ Level course from DOEACC/NIELIT 2) Min. 3 years’ experience as Programmer in Software Development/Web portal Management/ application development in a reputed organization. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 25]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 22 | P a g e Sr. No. 12 Superintendent 1. Name of the Post Superintendent 2. Number of Posts 08 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-7 5. Mode of Recruitment 50% by direct recruitment 50% by promotion 6. Age limit 45 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits Bachelor degree with at least 50% marks and 5 years’ experience at the level of Deputy Superintendent/Assistant from University/ Colleges/ Educational Institutions/ Govt./ Semi-Govt. /PSU. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from amongst the Assistants/Accountant having five years’ experience in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 26]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 23 | P a g e Sr. No. 13 Section Officer 1. Name of the Post Section Officer 2. Number of Posts 02 3. Classification B 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-7 5. Mode of Recruitment 50% by direct recruitment 50% by promotion 6. Age limit 45 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) A Bachelor’s Degree in any discipline from any recognized Institute/ University. 2) 5 years’ experience as Assistant from University/ Colleges/ Educational Institutions - /Govt./Semi-Govt./ PSU/Corporations/ Corporate/Industry. Proficiency in Computer Operation, noting and drafting. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from amongst the Assistants/ Accountant having five years’ experience as Assistant/ Accountant in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 27]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 24 | P a g e Sr. No. 14 Personal Secretary 1. Name of the Post Personal Secretary 2. Number of Posts 02 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment 50% by direct recruitment 50% by promotion 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Bachelor’s degree with 50% marks and Minimum 5 years’ experience as Personal Assistant with good interpersonal skills, fluency in English with effective communication skills. 2) The applicant should be computer literate with Microsoft proficiency, excellent shorthand speed of 120 w.p.m. and accurate computer typing speed of 45 w.p.m. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion 5 years’ experience including 2 years as Senior Scale Stenographer in the university. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 28]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 25 | P a g e Sr. No. 15 JE (Electrical) 1. Name of the Post JE Electrical 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B. E/ B.Tech in Electrical / Allied Branch from AICTE approved institution in Regular mode with 60% and having experience of 2 years’ experience of Electrical works in Govt./public/private organization; OR B.Voc degree with 55% marks in Electrical or allied branch with a skill certificate in at least one QP in relevant field of NSQF Level 4 or above from UGC/AICTE recognized institution/ University or Institutions on full time regular mode basis, with 03 years’ experience of Electrical works in Govt./public/private organization OR Three years’ Diploma (Regular Mode) with 60% in Electrical Engineering/ allied branch from recognized Institution with 05 years’ experience of Electrical works in Govt./public/private organization. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 29]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 26 | P a g e Sr. No. 16 JE (Civil) 1. Name of the Post JE Civil 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B. E/ B.Tech in Civil / Allied Branch from AICTE approved institution in Regular mode with 60% and having experience of 02 years’ experience of Civil works in Govt./public/private organization; OR B.Voc degree with 55% marks in Civil or allied branch with a skill certificate in atleast one QP in relevant field of NSQF Level 4 or above from UGC/AICTE recognized institution/ University or Institutions on full time regular mode basis, with 03 years’ experience of Civil works in Govt./public/ private organization OR Three years’ Diploma (Regular Mode) with 60% in Civil Engineering/ allied branch from recognized Institution with 05 years’ experience of Civil works in Govt./public/ private organization. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 30]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 27 | P a g e Sr. No. 17 JE (Horticulture) 1. Name of the Post JE Horticulture 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.Sc. (Agriculture) with horticulture as elective in Regular mode with 02 years of experience in Govt./Public undertaking. OR B.Sc. (Horticulture) with 02 years of experience in Govt./Public Undertaking OR B.Voc. with at least 55% or its equivalent in Agriculture/ Horticulture or concerned/allied/relevant with a skill certificate in at least one QP in relevant field of NSQF Level 4 or above from UGC/AICTE recognized institution/ University or Institutions on full time regular mode basis, with 03 years of experience in Govt./Public Undertaking 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 31]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 28 | P a g e Sr. No. 18 Law Assistant 1. Name of the Post Law Assistant 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Graduation in law (Professional Degree) with at least 50% marks from a recognized University with 3 years’ experience of practicing in court of law preferably in service matters. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 32]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 29 | P a g e Sr. No. 19 Assistant 1. Name of the Post Assistant 2. Number of Posts 14 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment 50% by direct recruitment 50% by Promotion 6. Age limit for direct recruits 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruitment. 1. Bachelor's Degree with minimum 50% marks 2. Five years’ experience as Clerk /Clerk-Cum-Data Entry Operator in any recognized University/ Higher Education Institution/ Examination Body/ National level Research Institution/ Govt. Office/ PSU or Autonomous Bodies 3. Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. Desirable Candidate should have proficiency in using Computer & Internet 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from amongst the Clerk /Clerk-cum- DEO/Store Keeper having five years’ experience in the University. 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 33]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 30 | P a g e Sr. No. 20 Game Organizer 1. Name of the Post Game Organizer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Bachelor’s degree with at least 50% marks in Physical Education/ sports/ Yoga with 05 (five) years practical / professional experience. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 21 Accountant 1. Name of the Post Accountant 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.Com with 50% marks from recognized University with 05 years’ experience of Clerical Cadre in Govt./Semi Govt. /Govt. Aided University/ affiliated College/ Professional institution/ industry. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 34]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 31 | P a g e Sr. No. 22 Translator 1. Name of the Post Translator 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits Master’s degree in Hindi with 50% marks and English as a compulsory or elective subject at degree level with two years of experience in translation OR Master’s degree in English with 50% marks and Hindi as a compulsory or elective subject at degree level with two years of experience in translation. OR Master’s degree of a recognized University in any subject other than Hindi or English with 50% marks, with Hindi medium and English as a compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of an examination at the degree level with two years of experience in translation. OR Master’s Degree of a recognized University in any subject other than Hindi or English with 50% marks, with Hindi and English as compulsory or elective subjects or either of the two as a medium of examination and the other as a compulsory or elective subject at degree level with two years of experience in translation. OR Master’s degree of a recognized University in any subject other than Hindi or English with 50% marks, with English medium and Hindi as a compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of examination at the degree level with two years of experience in translation. OR Recognized Diploma or Certificate course in translation from Hindi to English & vice versa or four years’ experience of translation work from Hindi to English and vice versa in Central or State Government Office, including Government of India Undertaking. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 35]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 32 | P a g e Sr. No. 23 Senior Scale Stenographer 1. Name of the Post Senior Scale Stenographer 2. Number of Posts 03 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment 50% by direct recruitment 50% by promotion 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Graduation with 50% marks from any recognized University or its equivalent 2) English shorthand at a speed of 100 words per minute and transcription at a speed of 20 words per minute and mistakes should not exceed the limit of 8% 3) The candidate will have to qualify the test as prescribed by the competent authority including typing (with a speed of minimum 30 wpm in English/25 wpm in Hindi. 4) Three years’ experience in govt./ public undertaking 5) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level Desirable: 1) Preference will be given to the candidates who have 2/3 years’ diploma in secretarial practice/OMCA course 2) Well versed with noting, drafting and business communication 3) IT skills are mandatory. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from the post of Steno-Typist having bachelor degree from any recognized University and five years’ experience in the university 9. Period of probation 01 Year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 36]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 33 | P a g e Sr. No. 24 Junior Programmer 1. Name of the Post Junior Programmer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment /Deputation 6. Age limit for direct Recruits 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.Tech. with 55% marks with 3 Years’ experience in Computer Science & Engineering, Computer Science, Software Engineering/Information Technology. OR Master’s degree with 55% with 3 Years’ experience in Computer Application/Computer Science/Software Engineering/IT/CSE or equivalent. OR A Graduate with 55% marks in Computer Application/Computer Science/Software Engineering/ IT/ CSE or equivalent and two years’ experience in software development in a Government department/ Statutory Board/ Public Sector Undertaking/ Private/ Public Limited/industry. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 37]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 34 | P a g e Sr. No. 25 EPBAX Assistant 1. Name of the Post EPBAX Assistant 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits Graduate with at least 50% marks with flair in English Speaking, having worked as telephone attendant/PBX Operator for at least 05 (five) years in commercial/Semi Govt. organization. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 26 Staff Nurse 1. Name of the Post Staff Nurse 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.Sc. (Hons.) Nursing or B.Sc. (Post Basic) Nursing OR Diploma in General Nursing with midwife Training from recognized institute/ university with 50% marks and 03 (three) years of relevant experience. 2) A division Nurse (with midwife training) registered with Haryana Nurses Registration Council) with 5 (five) Years’ Experience. 3) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 38]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 35 | P a g e Sr. No. 27 Draftsman Civil 1. Name of the Post Draftsman Civil 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment / Promotion (By rotation) Note: In case there is no candidate eligible for promotion, the post may be filled through direct recruitment. 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) First class Diploma in Civil Engineering or a Certificate in Civil Draftsman ship or Architecture Assistantship or equivalent awarded by the State Board of Technical Education with 50% marks and 06 (six) years’ experience in an Architectural or Town Planning. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit up to Matric or at higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion By promotion from the post of Tracer having an experience of five years in the University and possessing Diploma in Civil Engineering or a Certificate in Civil Draftsmanship or Architecture Assistantship or equivalent awarded by the State Board of Technical Education or any other recognized institution. 9. Period of probation 01 year 10. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 39]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 36 | P a g e Sr. No. 28 Hostel Supervisor 1. Name of the Post Hostel Supervisor 2. Number of Posts 02 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Bachelor’s Degree with at least 50% marks in any field from a recognized University. 2) 5 years’ experience in the administration/direct interaction and management of students/ counseling of students in an academic institute/residential institute. 3) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 40]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 37 | P a g e Sr. No. 29 Sanitary Officer 1. Name of the Post Sanitary Officer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B.Sc. with 50% marks in chemistry or B. Pharmacy with 50% marks plus one-year Diploma course in Health/ Sanitary Inspector with 5-year experience in government/ public undertaking. OR One-year National Trade Certificate (NTC) in Health Sanitary Inspector awarded by National Council for vocational Training, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India, or an institution recognized by the State Government with 8-year experience in government/ public undertaking. 2) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 41]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 38 | P a g e Sr. No. 30 Pharmacist 1. Name of the Post Pharmacist 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) B. Pharma/ Two years Diploma in Pharmacy, as per Pharmacist Act, 1948 notification from a Government recognized institution. Valid Registration with the Pharmacy council of Haryana. 2) Knowledge of Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. Experience: Minimum 5 years of work experience in government /private organization for 2-year diploma holder or 3 years’ experience for B. Pharma. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 42]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 39 | P a g e Sr. No. 31 Guest House/ Hospitality Manager 1. Name of the Post Guest House/Hospitality Manager 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits Bachelor’s degree in Hotel Management/ Tourism with at least 55% marks and 08 years of experience at managerial level not less than Assistant Manager in a 4 (Four) star Hotel or a similar position in the hospitality industry/ Tourism Industry. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 32 Trainer/ Lab Technician 1. Name of the Post Trainer/ Lab Technician 2. Number of Posts 05 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-6 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Bachelor’s Degree in relevant discipline from a recognized university OR Diploma in relevant discipline from recognized institutions/State Board of Technical Education with three Years’ experience in any University/ Higher Educational Institution/ National Level Research Institution 2) Knowledge of Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or higher level 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 43]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 40 | P a g e Sr. No. 33 Electrician 1. Name of the Post Electrician 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-4 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) ITI Certificate in Electrical trade/ D. Voc/Diploma in Electrical/ B. Voc in Electrical along with two years’ experience of basic knowledge of Light transmission and heavy transmission. 2) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 34 Driver 1. Name of the Post Driver 2. Number of Posts 03 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-4 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Matric pass from a recognized board possessing a light/medium/heavy vehicles valid driving license issued by the competent authority, as the case may be. 2) Should pass the driving test to be conducted by a committee constituted by the university. 3) He should not be colour blind and should have vision of 6’’X6’’ with or without specs. 4) Should have an experience of driving motor vehicles for 2 years. 5) Knowledge of Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 44]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 41 | P a g e Sr. No. 35 Clerk/Clerk-cum-DEO 1. Name of the Post Clerk/Clerk-cum-DEO 2. Number of Posts 06+17 (23) 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment 80% posts by direct recruitment 20% By promotion from amongst Group D employees of this University. Fraction more than 0.5 shall be treated as rounded off to next higher digit. 6. Age limit for direct recruits 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Graduate from a recognized University. 2) Candidate will have to qualify the test as prescribed by the competent authority including proficiency in computer application and appreciation, typing (with speed of minimum 30 wpm in English) 3) Knowledge of Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion 1) By promotion from the post(s) of Group C and D employees i.e., Restorer/Peon/Mali/Cook/Sweeper(s), having 05 years’ experience of working in this University, with qualification of Graduation. 2) Such candidate shall have to qualify test of proficiency in computer application and appreciation, typing in English/Hindi as prescribed by the University on the pattern of SETC part-I &II to become eligible for promotion 9. Period of probation 01 year 10 In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 45]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 42 | P a g e Sr. No. 36 Store Keeper 1. Name of the Post Store Keeper 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Graduate with 50% marks OR B. Voc with a skill certificate in at least one QP in relevant field of NSQF Level 4 or above with 5 years’ experience as junior store keeper in Govt./Semi Govt. /Govt. Aided University/ affiliated College/ Professional institution/ industry. 2) Knowledge of Hindi /Sanskrit upto Matric or at higher Level 8. Period of probation 01 Year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 37 Medical Attendant 1. Name of the Post Medical Attendant 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) 10+2 with 50% marks from any recognized board/institute with 2 years’ experience as Medical Attendant in any Govt. Hospital / Dispensary/ Health centre or any private hospital. 2) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 46]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 43 | P a g e Sr. No. 38 Restorer 1. Name of the Post Restorer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct recruitment/promotion (by rotation) 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Matric pass from any recognized board/institute having 5 years’ experience as peon in the record room/restoration of record/files in State Govt./ Semi- Govt. department/ University/ Affiliated college. 2) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or Higher Level. 8. In case of recruitment by promotion 5 years’ experience as peon in this university 9. Period of probation 01 year 10. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 39 Steno-Typist 1. Name of the Post Steno-typist 2. Number of Posts 02 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit for direct recruits 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Graduate from recognized university. 2) English shorthand at a speed of 80 w.p.m and transcription of 20 w.p.m. (8% mistake are permissible) & Word processing speed of 8000 keys/hours or more. 3) Ability to work on computer with internet efficiently. 4) Knowledge of English & Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 47]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 44 | P a g e Sr. No. 40 Library Attendant 1. Name of the Post Library Attendant 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1 ) 12th Class pass from recognized Board 2) Certificate/Diploma in Library Science 3) Knowledge of Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or higher level 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 41 Tracer 1. Name of the Post Tracer 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Matric pass from any recognized board or its equivalent with drawing as a subject and at least 02 years’ experience in tracing work; 2) Knowledge of English & Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric or higher level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 48]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 45 | P a g e Sr. No. 42 Plumber 1. Name of the Post Plumber 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL- 2 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Matric pass from a recognized Board with ITI Certificate in the trade of Plumber with 2 years’ experience in plumbing. 2) Knowledge of Hindi/Sanskrit up to Matric level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 43 Hostel Attendant 1. Name of the Post Hostel Attendant 2. Number of Posts 02 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL-1 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit for direct recruits 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) 10+2 Pass from any recognized Board with two years of experience in a Hostel/ Canteen/ Hotel/ Guest House etc. 2) Knowledge of English & Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 49]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 46 | P a g e Sr. No. 44 Carpenter 1. Name of the Post Carpenter 2. Number of Posts 01 3. Classification C 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL - ‘DL’ 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment/Deputation 6. Age limit 42 years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 1) Matric pass with ITI Certificate in the trade of Carpenter with two years’ experience in relevant field 2) Knowledge of English & Hindi / Sanskrit up to Matric or at Higher Level. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms. Sr. No. 45 Class – IV (Peon/ Mali/ Cook/ Sweeper) 1. Name of the Post Peon/Mali/ Cook/ Sweeper 2. Number of Posts 13 3. Classification D 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level FPL - ‘DL’ 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment 6. Age limit for direct recruits ccccc 7. Educational qualification for direct recruits 1) Peon: Matric passed with Hindi/Sanskrit from a recognized Board. 2) Mali: Middle passed with one-year experience in gardening with well-versed in related works. 3) Cook: Matric passed with relevant diploma in cooking from a recognized institute and 2 years’ experience of cooking in a reputed Hotel/Restaurant/Canteen/ Hostel/ Guest House etc. 4) Sweeper: Middle passed with well-versed in work of sweeping and cleaning. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Appointment on deputation basis may be considered as per State Govt. norms.

[PAGE 50]
Approved in 28th Executive Council, Dated: 26.09.2023 47 | P a g e Sr. No. 46 Technical Posts 1. Name of the Post Laboratory Attendant/MTS 2. Number of Posts 54 3. Classification D 4. Scale of Pay/ Pay Level DL 5. Mode of Recruitment Direct Recruitment 6. Age limit 42 Years 7. Educational and other qualification required for direct recruits 12th Class pass with Science OR 12th Pass with vocational certificate in relevant trade. OR 10th Class with ITI in relevant trade. 8. Period of probation 01 year 9. In case of recruitment by deputation Not applicable


--- DOCUMENT: research new.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY POLICY FOR PROMOTION OF RESEARCH (Under Section 7(a,r&x) of Svsu Act 2016)

[PAGE 2]
1 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 POLICY FOR PROMOTION OF RESEARCH Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) is a State university established under Act 25 of 2016. The objective to establish the Skill University is to facilitate and promote skill, entrepreneurship development, skill based education and research in the emerging areas of manufacturing, information technology, textile, design, logistics and transportation, automation, agriculture, maintenance, etc. and to raise skill level in various fields related to these areas. This policy aims to promote research ecosystem and conducive environment for conducting quality research by the faculty members and students of the University. The policy applies to all the faculty members, research scholars and students of SVSU University, Palwal who are engaged in any form of research & innovation activity. All research activities will be undertaken in accordance with the university’s regulatory and ethical considerations. Objectives 1. To strengthen the institutional capacity for research and encourage researchers for industry connect, collaborations and research networking 2. To organize research promotion events like summits, conferences, seminars, workshops, expert lectures and panel discussion through talks with eminent personalities from reputed institutions and industries etc. 3. To identify the problems faced by the industry and find effective solutions for their improvisation in terms of productivity, improvising product design, development of new products, product quality, cost reduction, employee engagement through research projects and consultancy work, etc. 4. To motivate faculty members, research scholars, staff and students to apply for patent and also encourage to present research papers in national and international conferences/ workshops. 5. To encourage faculty members to make efforts in securing extramural research grants for research funding 6. To encourage faculty members for developing the research ecosystem by providing Seed Money Grant for conceptualizing the research ideas 7. To recognise and incentivise the best performers in research, consultancy and qualification development. 8. To take Initiatives for signing MoU's with reputed national/international institutions and industries for collaborative consultancy and research projects, etc. 9. To promote Intellectual Property Right (IPR) culture and protect IPRs arising out of the research conducted by the University fraternity Custodian of the Policy The implementation and updating of Research Policy shall be carried out by Research and Development cell. The University shall have a Research Advisory Board to advise and supervise research related matters of the university. The research output shall be assessed by internal and external audit committees. The external audit committee shall have external subject expert(s). A. Undertaking Research Faculty members of the University are expected to undertake quality research leading to publications in Journals of international repute and presentations in leading International/National conferences. Established open' scientometric indices such as publications in Journals indexed in Web of Science (SCI, SCIE, SSCI, AHCI, ESCI), UGC Care and Scopus databases, impact factor (by Clarivate™) of the Journal, citations of the publication, h-index, i-

[PAGE 3]
2 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 index of the faculty shall be used to assess the quality of research in a uniform and transparent manner. It is the responsibility of the individual faculty member to maintain an updated account of research activities in an appropriate manner. B. Recruitment and Promotion Participation in research activity is mandatory for all faculty members and research output will be an important criterion for faculty recruitment and promotion along with other academic indicators. Norms for measuring the required quantum of research output will be as per UGC rules and/or as prescribed by the University from time to time. The quality of research output may be assessed on the transparent and established scientometric indices or as revised by the University from time to time C. Research Administration  A Research & Development Cell (RDC) to function under the Vice-Chancellor with a Research Advisory Council and five committees as mandated by UGC guidelines dated March 4, 2022 and June 8, 2022 (notified vide ACM-l/App.22 dated 27-07-2022). RDC is expected to play a lead role in catalysing research culture mandated in NEP 2020 while creating an enabling environment for attainment of targets of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Vibrant Research Ecosystem also aims to provide a meaningful trust for sustainable research and innovation besides promoting collaboration between University, Industries and Government.  Research activity of each Faculty/Department/Institute is coordinated by the respective Dean/Chairperson/Director/Principal with designated authority/responsibility for Pls/Co-Pls. D. Resources for Research Support A separate Budget Head for research be created for the purpose of earmarking generation and allocation of resources for research with a potential to catalyse innovative and entrepreneurial success stories. i) Intramural Funds- Innovation Fund, Research Fund/Seed Money To strengthen research & innovation and promote entrepreneurial culture a corpus may be created for faculty members. Fund from the corpus amount will be sanctioned to the faculty members with at least one year of service with SVSU. a) Innovation Fund: An innovation fund of Rs. 500000 in each skill faculty is recommended to be created, which may be utilised by faculty/instructor. The amount will be provided with a block of 2 years or till it is utilized whichever is earlier. It is recommended that each skill faculty will get the budget approved for same under their respective budget head. The distribution, monitoring and accounts of the innovation fund will be taken care by the Dean of respective Skill Faculty of the University. The Fund may be utilised for:  Prototype development and collaborative Projects/Research-Prototype development for Industry or collaborative projects/research or social immersion projects with students/different faculties/staff members leading to collaborative publications/prototype development/solution to industry based problems or society to the selected projects by the competent authority.  To identify the problems faced by the industry and find effective solutions for their improvisation in terms of productivity, improvising product design, development of new products, product quality, cost reduction, employee engagement through research projects, and consultancy work, etc

[PAGE 4]
3 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024  Intellectual property rights grant/ publication/social immersion projects. Skill Faculties may combine their funds if required. In addition, the matching grant may also be looked for from the industry partner by respective researchers. b) Research Fund/Seed Money: To promote the overall research ecosystem and fund research problems of impacting nature, it is proposed to grant funds in the form of seed money to university teachers, researchers and skill instructors under the University Funded Research Program (UFRG). A flexi- Research Fund will be created which may be provided to Skill Faculties along with a flexi - provision that in case a Skill Faculty requires more money than the allotted budget then it may be provided from the other Skill Faculties unutilised fund on the approval by competent authority. The university proposes to incur a total expenditure of Rs. 50 Lakhs for the University Funded Research Program (UFRG) to be disbursed in the form of a limited number of research grants/seed grants to promote the research and innovation culture. There will be a provision of 10 percent increase in amount of UFRG after every three year depending upon the number of projects completed/ No. of publications/No. of prototype developed/ No. of patents followed by the number of projects submitted by Skill faculty to outside funding agency. The seed money granted will be of maximum three lakh rupees with a block of 3 years or till it is utilized whichever is earlier. Such a fund may be utilised on a) Conducting research b) Conference participation with publication in quality indexed conference proceedings (Scopus/SCI/SCIE/SSCI/WoS/IEEE/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC care List) c) Intellectual Property Rights grant/ publication d) Prototype development and collaborative projects -Prototype development for Industry solution to industry based problems. e) Multidisciplinary Projects by faculty members’/skill instructors of different faculties solving Industry/societal problems All regular faculty members/Instructors of the University are eligible to apply for University Research Grant. The regular faculty/Instructors member should have at least three years’ service remaining before the date of superannuation. Faculty member/Instructor have an ongoing UFRG project can not apply; however, they can submit a new proposal one year after the completion of UFRG project. The proposals for fund shall be submitted in prescribed Performa which shall be evaluated by an expert committee for recommendations for funding. Faculty/Instructors availing fund are required to publish their research work in at least one research paper in reputed international/national journals which are SCI/SCIE/SSCI/Scopus/AHCI/UGC Care list/NASS/Web of Science indexed for the Faculties of Science, Life Sciences, and Engineering & Technology; and SCI/SCIE / SSCI / AHCI / NASS/ Web of Science / UGC Care list journals for all other Faculties or patent award/publication or start-up commercialisation. The Faculty member shall submit final project report and utilisation certificate along with published research papers or the status of research papers on the completion of tenure of Seed Money Grant/Minor Research Project. Application Process  Interested faculty member shall submit the proposal in the prescribed format along with Bio-Data to the Research and Innovation (R&I) Cell.

[PAGE 5]
4 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024  Proposals submitted must be original in ideation and content. Plagiarism in any form will not be acceptable as per University Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy and liable to be rejected if found plagiarized. Evaluation & Selection Criteria  The Project Monitoring Committee (PMC) will be constituted for selection of fresh proposals and review of ongoing project  The PMC shall comprise of following members:  Dean (Research and Innovation), Chairman  All Deans of the skill faculties, Member  Two Professor’s (one may be external) nominated by the Vice Chancellor  Associate Dean/In charge (Research Cell), Member Secretary  The PMC will meet twice a year (1st week of March and 1st week of Sept) to review ongoing projects and consider new proposals. The committee will shortlist the candidates to be called for presentation and finalize the proposals to be recommended for the UFRG for approval of Vice- Chancellor. ii) Extramural funds The faculty members are expected to submit Research Projects to appropriate funding agencies for extramural research grants, sponsored projects and fellowship programmes. They are' also expected to generate consultancy funds from the State / National / International funding bodies. Government or private (corporate and NGOs / trusts / individuals). Necessary documents to support the research proposals are made available through the accounts branch, Research and consultancy office and Registrar office (as the case maybe). The University shall monitor the progress of Major Research Projects and all other extramural funding as per guidelines of the specific funding agency and help in submitting the utilisation certificate in time as per the requirement of the funding agency in order to facilitate timely release of subsequent yearly grants. E. Publications Publication of research papers and filing of patents, designs, trademarks, copyright etc. is considered critical for effective research visibility of the University besides the main task of generation and dissemination of new knowledge. The University encourages these activities by the faculty with this broad targeted aim and the faculty/instructors/staff must publish continuously preferably in the SCI/SCIE/SSCI/NASS/AHCl/Scopus indexed journals or at least in the UGC approved journals. F. IPR & Technology Transfer IPR and technology transfer cases will be processed as per IPR policy of the university. G. Research Incentive Schemes The University need to motivate faculty/instructors/staff members to publish regularly, to innovate and to generate patentable work. Also to keep pace with the world and to improve the rankings, a progressive improvement in the quality of publications and scale of innovation is imperative. Providing Awards and Incentives is considered as a positive stimulation to improve research performance and accelerate research efforts. Following Awards and Incentives are therefore designed with this precise purpose. a) Research Awards

[PAGE 6]
5 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 Five Best Researcher Awards per Faculty of rupees 5100/- each award shall be presented annually to the regular faculty/instructors of SVSU based on the excellence achieved in a particular category. BEST RESEARCHER AWARDS 1 Best Researcher: Publications  Maximum number of published papers in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed Journals in a calendar year. A granted patent would be considered equivalent to a publication.  In Case of tie the researcher with total higher impact factor of the publications will be adjudged as the winner  If the tie still persists, the researcher with the highest impact factor of a single publication will be adjudged as the winner  If the tie still persists, the researcher having higher number of collaborative publications with international and National Universities/institutes other than SVS University, Palwal will be adjudged as the winner.  It will be the responsibility of the applicant to submit hard copy of the documents, if asked for, substantiating the indexing of Journals in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed as well as the impact factors 2. Best Researcher: Impact Factor  Highest cumulative impact factor of the papers published in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed journals in a calendar year.  In Case of tie the researcher with total higher impact factor of an individual publications from the same calendar year will be adjudged as the winner  If the tie still, persists, the researcher having higher number of collaborative publications with International and National Universities/institutes other than SVSU, will be adjudged as the winner.  It will be responsibility of the applicant to submit documents substantiating the indexing of journals in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed as well as the impact factors.  As mentioned under definitions, journal impact factor as calculated by Clarivate Analytics will only be considered. 3. Best Researcher; h-index/i-index  In the absence of a perpetual subscription to Scopus or Web of Science, h-index/i-index provided by the open platform, Google Scholar would be considered.  The teachers applying for the award under this category must have their Google Scholar profiles in public domain and the link to their profiles need to be provided.  The h-index of the applicant till the last date of submission of applications will be considered as submitted by the applicant.  In case of a tie, the researcher with higher number of papers with citations equal to or more than the SVSU h-index/i-index for the year under consideration will be adjudged as the winner. The h-index/i-index of the University will be provided by the Director-IQAC for this purpose.  It will be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the inclusion of research publications belonging only to the applicant in the Google Scholar profile. Inclusion of any publications not organically belonging to the applicant would lead to disqualification for being considered for the award.

[PAGE 7]
6 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 4. Best Researcher: Projects  Highest value of research project(s) awarded by an external funding agency in a calendar year. At least one project with a sanctioned value above Rs. 3.0 lakh only would be considered for the Award, in case of multiple projects in a calendar year, the condition of minimum sanctioned value of Rs. 3.0 lakh will not apply to additional projects.  In case of a tie, cumulative total amount of the research projects in entire career of the teacher funded by external agencies (other than SVSU) would be taken into account.  In case of a research project having Principal Investigator as well as Co-Principal investigator(s), both the Investigator(s) of the project would be considered for this award and the money will be distributed equally. If there are more than two Invigilators, the award of 50% will be given to the principal invigilator and the 50% award money will be distributed equally to other invigilators. 5. Best Researcher: Collaboration. Maximum number of research collaborations as evidenced by joint publications in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus indexed journals or joint research projects. Weightage criteria for collaborations with other Universities/Institutes would be as under: Publications Points Joint with an International University/Institute 10 Joint with an industry or Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 'A++', or, IITs, IIMs etc 7 Joint with an Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 'A', or National Labs/Institutes such as CSIR Labs, NITs etc. 5 Joint with an Indian University with NAAC Grade below 'A' or no Grade 2 Joint with a Institute/college with NAAC Grade or no grade 1 Projects Points Joint with an International University/institute 10 Joint with industry 7 Joint with an Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 'A' or higher, or National Labs/Institutes such as CSIR Labs, IITs, NITs, IIMs etc. 5 Joint with an Indian University with NAAC Grade below 'A' or no Grade 2 Joint with a Institute/college with NAAC Grade or no grade 1 • Each collaborating University/Institute/College can be counted for weighted only once irrespective of the number of joint publications/projects. • In case of a tie, the researcher with highest impact factor of a single publication will be adjudged as the winner b) Lifetime Achievement Award  Applications for this Award can be submitted up to April 30 of a calendar year by a teacher who is going to retire in between October 01 of the same calendar year and September 30 of the next calendar year.  Chairperson/Director of the Department/Institute or Dean of the Skill Faculty or Dean Academic Affairs can also nominate a teacher who is retiring as per the timeframe mentioned above. Emeritus Professors of SVSU may also be considered for this Award by invitation only for the first time after the notification for this award.  The applicant/nominator must submit a detailed CV-depicting the Journey of the teacher from the beginning of his/her career at SVSU mentioning his/her contributions towards the growth of SVSU as well as his/her professional achievements. c) Membership Fee to join professional Societies/Bodies

[PAGE 8]
7 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024  The provision of Membership Fee to join professional Societies/Bodies to the faculty members’/skill instructors of the university should be as per SVSU FDP policy. H. Consultancy to the Government, Industry and other Organizations Faculty/Instructors/Staff members are encouraged to gradually move towards monetizing the research/academic/technical capabilities by way of undertaking consultancy or providing technical services to Industry and other organizations utilizing the facilities available in the University. A separate policy for carrying consultancy work is included in University Consultancy Policy 2022. It is recommended that of reward Rs. 5100 will be given to each faculty/instructor/staff member for consultancy work done. It is recommended to make a budgetary provision of Rs. 1.0 Lakh/year in the R&D budget head for this reward.  Highest value of consultancy awarded by an external funding agency in a calendar year. At least one project with a sanctioned value above Rs. 3.0 lakh only would be considered for the Award, in case of multiple projects in a calendar year, the condition of minimum sanctioned value of Rs. 3.0 lakh will not apply to additional projects.  In case of a tie, cumulative total amount of the consultancy in entire career of the teacher funded by external agencies (other than SVSU) would be taken into account.  In case of a consultancy having Principal Investigator as well as Co-Principal investigator(s), both the Investigator(s) of the consultancy would be considered for this award and the money will be distributed equally. If there are more than two Invigilators, the award of 50% will be given to the principal invigilator and the 50% award money will be distributed equally to other invigilators. I. Qualification Development Qualifications being important component in skill education, faculty/instructor/staff members are encouraged to develop the qualifications as per National Council for Vocational Education and Training guidelines. It is expected that the staff members of the university must develop the qualification’s those are focused for future job roles. The University will incentivise such faculty members’/Instructors/Staff members for development such future oriented job role qualifications in emerging areas every year (areas/sectors in which fewer or no qualifications are available). It is recommended to keep a budgetary provision of Rs. 1,00,000 in the budget head of each skill faculty every year. The accounts, and expenditure of the qualification development fund will be taken care by the Dean of respective Skill Faculty/Department of the University.  Award money of maximum Rs 20000/- will be given for each qualification developed in emerging areas/sectors for futuristic job roles, the qualifications considered should not be improvement/modification of existing qualification for existing job roles. The award shall be equally distributed among the faculty members, skill instructors involved in development of the qualification.  In case of more than five such qualifications developed in futuristic skills in a Skill Faculty in a year, the award money can be distributed equally for all such qualifications by respective Dean of Skill Faculty keeping the total budgetary amount as Rs 1,00,000/-. J. Supporting Policies, Guidelines and Regulations It is expected that each member involved in research adheres to the highest ethical standards of conduct including data integrity and ethical guidelines in place from time to time. The University shall have supporting policy frameworks for promotion of research in conjunction with this policy such as Ph.D. Ordinance, policy on research ethics, guidelines for research on human subjects (as adopted from ICMR), guidelines for biosafety committee (as adopted from DBT) and

[PAGE 9]
8 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 guidelines for animal ethics committee (as adopted from DST) and all applicable regulations and guidelines. GUIDELINES FOR CARRYING OUT SPONSORED RESEARCH PROJECTS 1. Introduction Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal considers the need to facilitate the research and development activities systematically to lay strong foundation and register growth in research by generation of resources, research collaborations and establishing links with industry as well as with social organizations. The University will handle the project management aspects related to accounts, purchases, recruitment, audits, liaisons with sponsors, and prepare the status reports, by the following rules and regulations. 2. Scope The rules and regulations are applicable to all activities stated therein. 1. The proposals submitted by a Department/ Center/ Employee of the University or by the University as such. 2. Sponsored Research Projects involving external funding sources. 3. International Research Collaborations involving international funding sources or international collaborators 4. Industry/ Organization Sponsored Projects, involving funding from industry 3. Definitions 1. Sponsored Research Project means a time and cost bound project sponsored by government, public, private, national/international agencies or autonomous bodies. 2. Sponsor means the organization that offers a sponsored Project to the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal and provides necessary financial support for successful completion of the project in time. 3. Principal Investigator (PI) means a member of the faculty/instructor/staff who submits the project proposal and negotiates with the sponsor and is instrumental in getting the project funding. 4. Co-Investigator or Co-Principal Investigator means a working/retired faculty/instructor/staff member co- opted by the PI to work jointly with him/her and approved by the funding agency. In the absence of PI (PI goes abroad for long time, PI gets retired, PI leaves the university) Co-PI, working in the university, will become in-charge of project as per norms of funding agency. In case Co-PI has also retired then another faculty member of the university from the same department will act as PI subject to recommendation of DEAN RESEARCH and approval of competent authority and funding agency. 5. The project staff includes research technical and office personnel. 6. Dean Research means Dean Research and Innovation of SVSU. ͶǤSubmission of the Project Proposals The PI will complete the project initiation form as per Annexure for submission of ‘Research Project’ to the various funding agencies and submit to Dean Research through the Dean of the concerned Skill Faculty and for non-teaching faculty the Head of the department shall ensure that it would be possible for the department to accommodate the work of the research project. In case, the project is to be sponsored by a non-government agency, a statement on the terms and conditions of the project including the rights of patents and royalties must be spelled out clearly through a MoU/Agreement (to be vetted by Legal officer of the university) to be signed by the

[PAGE 10]
9 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 Registrar, Dean Research of the university and PI and the competent authority of the funding agency. 5. Sanction of the Project The sanction letter and details of the amount sanctioned under different Budget heads, duration of the project and other terms and conditions shall be communicated to the Account Branch for entering the grant in the grant register by the PI. The date of the start of the Project will be taken as the date when the first instalment of the Grant is received. In case of any conflict, the guidelines of the funding agency shall supersede. 6. Operation of the projects 6.1 Procedure for purchase of equipment, consumables, up gradation, repairs, annual maintenance contracts (AMC), renovation and TA/DA expenses as per the University norms. 6.2 All purchases shall be executed by a Committee called the ‘Project Purchase Committee (PPC)’ for each project consisting of the Dean Research nominee, chairperson of the department, PI (convener), Co-PI (if any) and one/two members of the Teaching Faculty/Staff. 6.3 An imprest amount equivalent to 5% of the total contingency grant with a ceiling of Rs. 10,000/- will be provided to the PI for smooth running of the Project. The Finance Policy of University will be followed for purchase of any items in the project. 6.4 The University TA/DA rules/rules will normally be applicable to all sponsored research projects for field work and visits in Haryana or outside Haryana (in India or abroad). However, keeping in view the time-bound nature of the projects, the PI/Co-PI/research staff will be allowed to travel by taxi/own car/ by air irrespective of their entitlement on the approval of Vice Chancellor. 6.5 Imprest amount for the field work: For the payment required for field work connected with the sponsored research increase in imprest amount will be allowed by the DEAN RESEARCH upto Rs. 10000/- and beyond that by the Vice Chancellor. 6.6 The Secretarial assistance: To look after the processing of bills, preparation of accounts reports, utilization certificate and other project related secretarial work a person may be hired on the Govt. Approved rates by PI in consent with Dean Research. 6.7 The appointment of clearing agent: The clearing of the imported equipment and other items at the air-port is a very tedious and time consuming process. In order to save time and energy of the PI, the University shall appoint a clearing agent. The charges of the agent for each case shall be met out of the corresponding project budget head. Further, the University will provide a suitable vehicle if needed to bring the imported items from the airport. 6.8 Annual statement of expenditure and utilization certificate: The PI shall prepare the statement of expenditure and utilization certificate of every project by 30th March of the relevant year and send the same to the Dean Research /Accounts Branch for confirmation or reconciliation for onward transmission to the funding agency, or vice-versa. 6.9 All expenditures will be as per university Accounting policy. 7. Management of Overhead Charges The funds under this head can be utilized by the PI during the Project period on items of expenditure as per prescribed procedures of the University. ͹ǤͳǤInfrastructure: Expenses related to

[PAGE 11]
10 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024  Laboratory maintenance & renovation  Purchase/ repair of furniture, air conditioners, Personal Computers, Laptops and Printers 7.2 Repair and up-gradation of scientific equipment and purchase of minor accessories of equipment. 7.3 Advertisements in the newspapers of vacant positions in the project as well as other public notices. 7.4 Hiring of manpower including secretarial assistance (typing /computer operation/accounting /bills etc.) shall be subjected to approval by the Dean Research as appropriate at university/State Govt. approved rates. Assistance of student of Ph.D., Masters, Bachelors course not getting any financial support can be provided at the rate of Rs. 125, Rs.100, Rs.75/- hour with a maximum limit of 30 hours per week after getting approval of the Dean Research. 7.5 Expenses to meet local, domestic or international travels, hotel expenses, DA registration fee for participation of PI, Co-PI and project staff in conference/symposia and for visit to other laboratories (in India and abroad) for discussion or for collaborative research work subject to prior approval of the PI (upto Rs. 5000/-), Dean Research (upto Rs. 10,000/-) and Vice- Chancellor for the expenses above Rs. 10,000/-. Expense to meet filing of Indian patent will be as per University/ State Govt. rules. The expense of the membership fee of various professionals/academic societies can also be met out of PIs share. 7.6 Provision of communication facilities including installation and the periodical bills payment of mobile of the PI/ Co-PI, dongle Wi-Fi charges, charges for ISD call made from actual telephone or public call office and E-mail charge if any for project work may be paid from this head on actual basis. 7.7 Annual maintenance contract (AMC) fee/charges for the equipments, computers/printers, air conditioner etc. The allotment of AMC of the technical instruments upto Rs. 10,000/- shall be executed by the PI after the approval of Dean Research. Beyond Rs. 10,000/- the AMC will be awarded by the PI after the approval of Vice-Chancellor. 8. Appointments For appointments under the project, the PI will send the draft advertisement to the DEAN RESEARCH for approval through establishment branch, who will return it to the PI for notification/advertisement after giving approval. Application should be invited after giving wide publicity/as per the funding agency rules regarding the vacancies. The terms and conditions of the appointments can be decided by a committee duly constituted by the Vice-Chancellor on the recommendation of Dean Research, if required. 9. Maintenance of Stock Registers Each project should have separate stock register for consumable and non- consumable items to be maintained by PI or his/her office. The non-consumable items/equipment’s shall be transferred to the regular stock register of the department/university after completion of the project unless otherwise stated by the funding agency. 10. Interim Progress and Accounts Reports of the Project The PI shall prepare the progress report along with the statement of accounts which will be submitted to the Accounts Branch through Dean of concerned Skill Faculty and Dean Research. These statements will be used by the Accounts Branch for preparing the utilization certificates (UC) to be submitted to the funding agency. It will be the responsibility of PI to submit and maintain the accounts correctly. 11. Final Technical and Financial Report of the Project

[PAGE 12]
11 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 11.1 The final technical report shall be prepared by the PI in accordance with the requirements of the funding agency and submitted to the Dean Research for approval. However, the submission of the technical report to the funding agency will be the responsibility of the PI. 11.2 The final financial report including UC shall be prepared by the Accounts Branch in consultation with PI as per the requirements of the funding agency and submitted to the Registrar for approval. The submission of the required financial reports, approved by the Registrar, to the concerned agencies will be the responsibility of the PI. 12. Filing of Patents In case of the PI creates/invents a novel product having commercial significance or develops a technique which may have industrial application, Dean Research will send recommendation to initiate the process for filing a patent through a negotiated settlement involving the PI, the funding agency and the University. All costs related to filing as well as maintenance of patent (Indian, International or any other patent) will be paid by the University. Annexure/ Form – 1 FORMAT FOR FORWARDING RESEARCH PROJECTS PROPOSALS (Enclose two copies of project proposal with this form) 1. Name of the Investigator : 2. Designation : 3. Date of Birth/Retirement : 4. Department/Centre : 5. Name of the Co-Investigator (if any) : 6. Designation : 7. Date of Birth : 8. Department/Centre : 9. Title of the Project : 10. Duration of the Project from To 11. Funding Agency : 12. Total Funds requested including salaries without overhead charges :

[PAGE 13]
12 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 13. Whether the account of the earlier Completed projects finally closed : 14. If not, the reasons for the same : 15. Information to be provided by the Principal Investigator i) Total number of ongoing Projects: ii) Total number of Projects completed in the last 10 years: iii) The following information for each project should be given on separate sheet: Title of the project: Funding Agency: Total Grant of the project: Date of Commencement, Date of completion. I understand that (i) University will not provide any funds for the project work, equipment, salaries or contingencies, (ii) Any electrical wiring, water pipes and drains, etc. within the laboratory, renovation and air conditioning has to be met out of the budget, (iii) Any extra space for the project has to be settled within the Department, University may not provide any additional space. The investigators will follow the norms for the operation of the project framed from time to time by the DEAN RESEARCH. Signature of the Investigator: Date: Signature of the Co-Investigator (if any): Date: Dean of Skill Faculty Signature :Seal Date: Notes: a) Two copies of the project proposal, one for the signature of the competent university authority and one for the records will be sent to the office of DEAN RESEARCH. The investigator should get the signed copy collected within 5-7 days of submission, required copies with forwarding letters to the funding agency, directly or through the office of concerned Dean of Skill Faculty. b) Co –Investigator who is not retiring before the date of the completion of the project is essential if the investigator is retiring before the date of completion of the project. c) A copy of the norms for operation of the project will be sent along with the acknowledgement of the first instalment of the money to the DEAN RESEARCH.

[PAGE 14]
13 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 Annexure– II Formats For Submission Of Research Proposal for seed money (To be filled by applicant) 1. Project Title 2. Broad Subject: 3. Sub Area: 4. Duration in months: 5. Project summary (maximum 150 words) 6. Key words (maximum 6) 7. Technical details 8. Introduction 9. Review of status of Research and Development in the subject 10. Importance of the proposed project in the context of current status 11. Methodology 12. Details about Principal Investigator Name Exact designation Appointment Type Department Qualifications Experience in years Students guided Publications Relevant experience Other information Cell number Email Signature 13. Details about Co-Investigator Name Exact designation Appointment Type Department Qualifications Experience in years Students guided Publications Relevant experience Other information Cell number Email Signature 14. Facilities/equipment available in the area of research proposed in the Department Name of equipment Make and model Cost in Rs. Year purchased

[PAGE 15]
14 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 15. Budget Estimates – Non Recurring Proposed equipment/s Specifications No ofunits Cost in Rs. Justification Total(INR) Budget Estimates –Recurring Estimate for Year 1 Estimate for Year 2 AMC/Service charges Nil (warranty period) Consumables & Contingencies By signing this certificate, I/We undertake to i . Abide by all the rules / regulations regarding utilization of amount that may be granted by the Institute. ii. Submit timely progress reports about grant utilization. iii. Submit utilization certificate duly authenticated by CA on/before project period is over. iv. Return full/partial unutilized grant amount to the institute. Signature of the Applicant Date Signature of Dean of the Skill Faculty Scrutiny report format for the project Title of the project: Department: Name of Principal Investigator: Area of Project: Date of Scrutiny: Reasons of selections/rejection:  a viable and researchable problem  an acceptable plan of action for undertaking the research  done sufficient preparation to establish the rationale for the research  a feasible chance of completing the research  originality  creative thinking  Budget and cost: Cost effectiveness/ cost Any other comment: Research Proposal Scoring Project: Selected/ Rejected Signature of the expert Name of the expert Designation Evaluation comments Score All relevant aspects of the criterion are successfully addressed. 5 The criterion is well addressed, although certain improvements arepossible. 4 The criterion is broadly addressed, yet significant weaknesses need to becorrected. 3 There are serious weaknesses in relation to the criterion 2 The criterion is addressed in an unsatisfactory manner. 1

[PAGE 16]
15 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 Report format of the work done on the Research Project. (Report to be submitted after every 6 months) 1. Project report No. 1st /2nd/3rd/4th: 2. Period of report: from to 3. Title of research project: 4. (a) Name of the Principal Investigator (b) Deptt. 5. Effective date of starting of the project 6. Grant approved and expenditure incurred during the period of the report: a. Total amount approved Rs. b. Total expenditure Rs. c. Report of the work done: (Please attach a separate sheet) i. Brief objective of the project ii. Work done so far and results achieved and publications, if any, resulting from the work (Give details of the papers and names of the journals in which it has been published or accepted for publication. iii. Has the progress been according to original plan of work and towards achieving the objective? If not, state reasons iv. Please indicate the difficulties, if any, experienced in implementing the project v. If project has not been completed, please indicate the approximate time by which it is likely to be completed. vi. If the project has been completed, please enclose a bound copy of the final report of work done. vii. Any other information which would help in evaluation of work done on the project. At the completion of the project, the first report should indicate the output, such as (a) Manpower trained (b) Ph. D. awarded (c) Publication of results (d) other impact, if any Signature of Signature of Principal investigator Co-investigator Dean (Skill Faculty) Dean (Research)

[PAGE 17]
16 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION NOTIFICATION UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION (PROMOTION OF ACADEMIC INTEGRITY AND PREVENTION OF PLAGIARISM IN HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS) REGULATIONS, 2018 New Delhi, the 23rd July, 2018 F. 1-18/2010(CPP-II).— Preamble Whereas, University Grants Commission (UGC), as per UGC Act, 1956, is mandated to coordinate and determine the standards of higher education; And whereas, assessment of academic and research work done leading to the partial fulfillment for the award of degrees at Masters and Research level, by a student or a faculty or a researcher or a staff, in the form of thesis, dissertation and publication of research papers, chapters in books, full-fledged books and any other similar work, reflects the extent to which elements of academic integrity and originality are observed in various relevant processes adopted by Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs); Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (j) of Section 12 read with clauses (f) and (g) of subsection (1) of Section 26 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, the University Grants Commission hereby makes the following regulations: - 1. Short title, application and commencement – a. These regulations shall be called the University Grants Commission (Promotion of Academic Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2018. b. They shall apply to the students, faculty, researchers and staff of all Higher Educational Institutions in the country. c. These regulations shall come into force from the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 2. Definitions - In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires— a. “Academic Integrity” is the intellectual honesty in proposing, performing and reporting any activity, which leads to the creation of intellectual property; b. “Author” includes a student or a faculty or a researcher or staff of Higher Educational Institution (HEI) who claims to be the creator of the work under consideration; c. “Commission” means the University Grants Commission as defined in the University Grants Commission Act, 1956; d. "Common Knowledge" means a well-known fact, quote, figure or information that is known to most of the people; e. “Degree” means any such degree specified by the University Grants Commission, by notification in the Official Gazette, under section 22 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956; f. “Departmental Academic Integrity Panel” shall mean the body constituted at the departmental level to investigate allegations of plagiarism; g. “Faculty” refers to a person who is teaching and/or guiding students enrolled in an HEI in any capacity whatsoever i.e. regular, ad-hoc, guest, temporary, visiting etc;

[PAGE 18]
17 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 h. “Higher Educational Institution (HEI)” means a university recognized under section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956 or an institution deemed to be university under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 or an affiliating college / institution or a constituent unit of a university; i. "Information" includes data, message, text, images, sound, voice, codes, computer programs, software and databases or microfilm or computer generated microfiche; j. “Institutional Academic Integrity Panel” shall mean the body constituted at Institutional level to consider recommendations of the departmental academic integrity panel and take appropriate decisions in respect of allegations of plagiarism and decide on penalties to be imposed. In exceptional cases, it shall investigate allegations of plagiarism at the institutional level; k. “Notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette and the expression “notify” with its cognate meanings and grammatical variation shall be construed accordingly; l. “Plagiarism” means the practice of taking someone else’s work or idea and passing them as one’s own. m. “Programme” means a programme of study leading to the award of a masters and research level degree; n. “Researcher” refers to a person conducting academic / scientific research in HEIs; o. “Script” includes research paper, thesis, dissertation, chapters in books, full-fledged books and any other similar work, submitted for assessment / opinion leading to the award of master and research level degrees or publication in print or electronic media by students or faculty or researcher or staff of an HEI; however, this shall exclude assignments / term papers / project reports / course work / essays and answer scripts etc.; p. “Source” means the published primary and secondary material from any source whatsoever and includes written information and opinions gained directly from other people, including eminent scholars, public figures and practitioners in any form whatsoever as also data and information in the electronic form be it audio, video, image or text; Information being given the same meaning as defined under Section 2 (1) (v) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and reproduced here in Regulation 2 (l); q. “Staff” refers to all non-teaching staff working in HEIs in any capacity whatsoever i.e. regular, temporary, contractual, outsourced etc.; r. “Student” means a person duly admitted and pursuing a programme of study including a research programme in any mode of study (full time or part-time or distance mode); s. “University” means a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a Provincial Act or a State Act, and includes an institution deemed to be university under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956; t. “Year” means the academic session in which a proven offence has been committed. Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in UGC Act, 1956. 3. Objectives 3.1 To create awareness about responsible conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of academic integrity and prevention of misconduct including plagiarism in academic writing among student, faculty, researcher and staff.

[PAGE 19]
18 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 3.2 To establish institutional mechanism through education and training to facilitate responsible conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of academic integrity and deterrence from plagiarism. 3.3. To develop systems to detect plagiarism and to set up mechanisms to prevent plagiarism and punish a student, faculty, researcher or staff of HEI committing the act of plagiarism. 4. Duties of HEI: Every HEI should establish the mechanism as prescribed in these regulations, to enhance awareness about responsible conduct of research and academic activities, to promote academic integrity and to prevent plagiarism. 5. Awareness Programs and Trainings: (a) HEI shall instruct students, faculty, researcher and staff about proper attribution, seeking permission of the author wherever necessary, acknowledgement of source compatible with the needs and specificities of disciplines and in accordance with rules, international conventions and regulations governing the source. (b) HEI shall conduct sensitization seminars/ awareness programs every semester on responsible conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of academic integrity and ethics in education for students, faculty, researcher and staff. (c) HEI shall: i. Include the cardinal principles of academic integrity in the curricular of Undergraduate (UG)/Postgraduate (PG)/Master’s degree etc. as a compulsory course work/module. ii. Include elements of responsible conduct of research and publication ethics as a compulsory course work/module for Masters and Research Scholars. iii. Include elements of responsible conduct of research and publication ethics in Orientation and Refresher Courses organized for faculty and staff members of the HEI. iv. Train student, faculty, researcher and staff for using plagiarism detection tools and reference management tools. v. Establish facility equipped with modern technologies for detection of plagiarism. vi. Encourage student, faculty, researcher and staff to register on international researcher's Registry systems. 6. Curbing Plagiarism a) HEI shall declare and implement the technology based mechanism using appropriate software so as to ensure that documents such as thesis, dissertation, publications or any other such documents are free of plagiarism at the time of their submission. b) The mechanism as defined at (a) above shall be made accessible to all engaged in research work including student, faculty, researcher and staff etc. c) Every student submitting a thesis, dissertation, or any other such documents to the HEI shall submit an undertaking indicating that the document has been prepared by him or her and that the document is his/her original work and free of any plagiarism.

[PAGE 20]
19 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 d) The undertaking shall include the fact that the document has been duly checked through a Plagiarism detection tool approved by the HEI. e) HEI shall develop a policy on plagiarism and get it approved by its relevant statutory bodies/authorities. The approved policy shall be placed on the homepage of the HEI website. f) Each supervisor shall submit a certificate indicating that the work done by the researcher under him /her is plagiarism free. g) HEI shall submit to INFLIBNET soft copies of all Masters, Research program’s dissertations and thesis within a month after the award of degrees for hosting in the digital repository under the “ShodhGanga e-repository”. h) HEI shall create Institutional Repository on institute website which shall include dissertation / thesis /paper / publication and other in-house publications. 7. Similarity checks for exclusion from Plagiarism. The similarity checks for plagiarism shall exclude the following: i. All quoted work reproduced with all necessary permission and/or attribution. ii. All references, bibliography, table of content, preface and acknowledgements. iii. All generic terms, laws, standard symbols and standards equations. Note: The research work carried out by the student, faculty, researcher and staff shall be based on original ideas, which shall include abstract, summary, hypothesis, observations, results, conclusions and recommendations only and shall not have any similarities. It shall exclude a common knowledge or coincidental terms, up to fourteen (14) consecutive words. 8. Levels of Plagiarism Plagiarism would be quantified into following levels in ascending order of severity for the purpose of its definition: i. Level 0: Similarities upto 10% - Minor similarities, no penalty ii. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% iii. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% iv. Level 3: Similarities above 60% 9. Detection/Reporting/Handling of Plagiarism If any member of the academic community suspects with appropriate proof that a case of plagiarism has happened in any document, he or she shall report it to the Departmental Academic Integrity Panel (DAIP). Upon receipt of such a complaint or allegation the DAIP shall investigate the matter and submit its recommendations to the Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) of the HEI. The authorities of HEI can also take suomotu notice of an act of plagiarism and initiate proceedings under these regulations. Similarly, proceedings can also be initiated by the HEI on the basis of findings of an examiner. All such cases will be investigated by the IAIP. 10. Departmental Academic Integrity Panel (DAIP) i. All Departments in HEI shall notify a DAIP whose composition shall be as given below: a. Chairman - Head of the Department b. Member - senior academician from outside the department, to be nominated by the head of HEI.

[PAGE 21]
20 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 c. Member - A person well versed with anti-plagiarism tools, to be nominated by the Head of the Department. The tenure of the members in respect of points 'b' and 'c' shall be two years. The quorum for the meetings shall be 2 out of 3 members (including Chairman). ii. The DAIP shall follow the principles of natural justice while deciding about the allegation of plagiarism against the student, faculty, researcher and staff. iii. The DAIP shall have the power to assess the level of plagiarism and recommend penalty(ies) accordingly. iv. The DAIP after investigation shall submit its report with the recommendation on penalties to be imposed to the IAIP within a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of complaint / initiation of the proceedings. 11. Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) i. HEI shall notify an IAIP whose composition shall be as given below: a. Chairman - Pro-VC/Dean/Senior Academician of the HEI. b. Member - Senior Academician other than Chairman, to be nominated by the Head of HEI. c. Member - One member nominated by the Head of HEI from outside the HEI d. Member - A person well versed with anti-plagiarism tools, to be nominated by the Head of the HEI. The Chairman of DAIP and IAIP shall not be the same. The tenure of the Committee members including Chairman shall be three years. The quorum for the meetings shall be 3 out of 4 members (including Chairman). ii. The IAIP shall consider the recommendations of DAIP. iii. The IAIP shall also investigate cases of plagiarism as per the provisions mentioned in these regulations. iv. The IAIP shall follow the principles of natural justice while deciding about the allegation of plagiarism against the student, faculty, researcher and staff of HEI. v. The IAIP shall have the power to review the recommendations of DAIP including penalties with due justification. vi. The IAIP shall send the report after investigation and the recommendation on penalties to be imposed to the Head of the HEI within a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of recommendation of DAIP/ complaint / initiation of the proceedings. vii. The IAIP shall provide a copy of the report to the person(s) against whom inquiry report is submitted. 12. Penalties Penalties in the cases of plagiarism shall be imposed on students pursuing studies at the level of Masters and Research programs and on researcher, faculty & staff of the HEI only after academic misconduct on the part of the individual has been established without doubt, when all avenues of appeal have been exhausted and individual in question has been provided enough opportunity to defend himself or herself in a fair or transparent manner. 12.1 Penalties in case of plagiarism in submission of thesis and dissertations Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) shall impose penalty considering the severity of the Plagiarism.

[PAGE 22]
21 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 i. Level 0: Similarities upto 10% - Minor Similarities, no penalty. ii. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% - Such student shall be asked to submit a revised script within a stipulated time period not exceeding 6 months. iii. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% - Such student shall be debarred from submitting a revised script for a period of one year. iv. Level 3: Similarities above 60% -Such student registration for that programme shall be cancelled. Note 1: Penalty on repeated plagiarism- Such student shall be punished for the plagiarism of one level higher than the previous level committed by him/her. In case where plagiarism of highest level is committed then the punishment for the same shall be operative. Note 2: Penalty in case where the degree/credit has already been obtained - If plagiarism is proved on a date later than the date of award of degree or credit as the case may be then his/her degree or credit shall be put in abeyance for a period recommended by the IAIP and approved by the Head of the Institution. 12.2 Penalties in case of plagiarism in academic and research publications I. Level 0: Similarities up to 10% - Minor similarities, no penalty. II. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. III. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. ii) Shall be denied a right to one annual increment. iii) Shall not be allowed to be a supervisor to any new Master’s, M.Phil., Ph.D. Student/scholar for a period of two years. iv) Level 3: Similarities above 60% i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. ii) Shall be denied a right to two successive annual increments. iii) Shall not be allowed to be a supervisor to any new Master’s, M.Phil., Ph.D. Student/scholar for a period of three years. Note 1: Penalty on repeated plagiarism - Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript and shall be punished for the plagiarism of one level higher than the lower level committed by him/her. In case where plagiarism of highest level is committed then the punishment for the same shall be operative. In case level 3 offence is repeated then the disciplinary action including suspension/termination as per service rules shall be taken by the HEI. Note 2: Penalty in case where the benefit or credit has already been obtained - If plagiarism is proved on a date later than the date of benefit or credit obtained as the case may be then his/her benefit or credit shall be put in abeyance for a period recommended by IAIP and approved by the Head of the Institution. Note 3: HEIs shall create a mechanism so as to ensure that each of the paper publication/thesis/dissertation by the student, faculty, researcher or staff of the HEI is checked for plagiarism at the time of forwarding/submission. Note 4: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against the Head of an HEI, a suitable action, in line with these regulations, shall be taken by the Controlling Authority of the HEI. Note 5: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against the Head of Department/Authorities at the institutional level, a suitable action, in line with these regulations, shall be recommended by the IAIP and approved by the Competent Authority.

[PAGE 23]
22 Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 Note 6: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against any member of DAIP or IAIP, then such member shall excuse himself / herself from the meeting(s) where his/her case is being discussed/investigated. 13. Removal of Difficulty UGC reserves the right to remove difficulty/difficulties in the course of implementations of these Regulations in consultation with the Government of India/ Ministry of Human Resource Development.


--- DOCUMENT: short_term.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
st (1 Government Skill University of India, setup by the Government of Haryana) SVSU SHORT TERM PROGRAMMES 2022 - 2023 NSQF - - - SKiLL RE - SKiLL UP SKiLL सीखो और कमाओ, अपनी पहचान बनाओ Website: www.svsu.ac.in Contact No: +91-124-2746800, 18001800147 Email ID: admissions@svsu.ac.in info@svsu.ac.in

[PAGE 2]
[NO EXTRACTABLE TEXT FOUND]

[PAGE 3]
[NO EXTRACTABLE TEXT FOUND]

[PAGE 4]
Index Hon'ble Chancellor..................................................................................................................................................I Vice Chancellor's Message.................................................................................................................................II Registrar's Message.............................................................................................................................................III Dean Academics's Message..............................................................................................................................IV Introduction...........................................................................................................................................................01 Vision and Mission...............................................................................................................................................02 Values.......................................................................................................................................................................03 Academic Structure Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology...............................................................................................04 Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research................................................................................04 Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities....................................................................................05 Skill Faculty of Agriculture................................................................................................................................05 List of Short Term Programmes Certiﬁcate in Music-Vocal.................................................................................................................................06 Certiﬁcate in Music Instrumental (Harmonium)......................................................................................07 Phlebotomist Technician...................................................................................................................................08 General Duty Assistant .....................................................................................................................................09 Geriatics (Elderly care).......................................................................................................................................10 Industrial Data Entry Operator.......................................................................................................................11 Blockchain Solutio Architect...........................................................................................................................12 CNC Programming and Soft Skills..................................................................................................................13 Module 1: CNC Part Programming and Simulations ………………………………..........…...……………….14 Module 2: CNC Programming and Machining...........................................................................................14 Smart Electrician..................................................................................................................................................16 Smart Plumber ......................................................................................................................................................17 Google Ads Specialist..........................................................................................................................................18 Research Associate.............................................................................................................................................19 Business Development Executive..................................................................................................................20 Tally Assistant……………………………………………......................................................……………….…………….21 Housekeeping Associate……………………………..........................................................………………………….22 Food & Beverage Server…………………………………..........................................................................…………23 Multi- Cuisine Commi………………………………………..................................................................……………..24 Satvik Quality Management Auditor……………………….................................…………….…………………..25 Mushroom Producer…………………………………………………......................................................……………..26 Calendar for STP..................................................................................................................................................27 SVSU Students on OJT…………………........................................................................……….……………………28 SVSU-Academic /Industry Partners………………...............................................................…………………31 Our Alumni …………………............................................................................................................................…….36 Glimps……………………….....................................................................................................................…………….38

[PAGE 5]
2022-23 Programmes for Academic Session Dual-Education Programmes (Out-Campus and In-Campus Programmes) Masters of Business Administration (M.B.A.) Master of Technology (M. Tech.) Master of Vocation (M. Voc.) Post Graduate Diploma (P.G.D.) Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Diploma Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Short Term Programmes (S.T.P.) Website: www.svsu.ac.in Contact No: +91-124-2746800, 18001800147 Email ID: admissions@svsu.ac.in, info@svsu.ac.in Shri Vishwakarma Skill University - Dudhola-Palwal, Haryana Transit ofﬁce: Plot 147, Sector 44, Gurugram -122003, Haryana

[PAGE 6]
DISCLAIMER During the publication of the Prospectus, the published/printed information is correct and in accordance with the existing rules of the University. However, any changes made by the University in the provisions/instructions/regulations at a later stage shall be applicable to all the students who are admitted or yet to seek admission in the various programmes. For latest information, candidates are advised to check the University website regularly. If anyone experiences any inconvenience or incurs loss due to such changes, the University shall not be held responsible. JURISDICTION All disputes shall lie in the jurisdiction of District Gurugram/Palwal (Haryana).

[PAGE 7]
Hon'ble Governor of Haryana Shri Bandaru Dattatreya Chancellor I

[PAGE 8]
Message Shri Raj Nehru Vice Chancellor Shri Vishwakarma Skill University The university offers a range of comprehensive NSQF aligned programs, designed after rigorous research and discourse with industry partners and other stakeholders to ensure that the students are equipped with the skills sought by the industries and organizations. To facilitate the identiﬁcation and learning of critical skills, the university has adopted a unique dual education model where 60% of the time, students remain on the OJT under the supervision of industry mentors where they learn diverse critical skills through observation, analysis, operation, participation and management. Furthermore, the university has prepared a state-of-the-art infrastructure that houses library, market, gymnasium, swimming pool, hostels, the Centre of Excellence, Labs, workshops, health center and other facilities. Besides the architectural infrastructure of the university that is a treat for the eyes, the highly qualiﬁed staff members, effective and responsive administrative set up, amicable academic environment, MoUs with leading industry partners, the university has garnered a great reputation in the academic-skill ecosystem as an institute that offers ample avenues for holistic development of the students' personality. The teaching faculty constantly gets training of the modern technical tools and latest research-based innovative pedagogical methods/approaches to facilitate the learning/skilling of every student in the class. The university comes with compact, cohesive and visionary academic and extracurricular events and activities to facilitate relentless learning and rounded development of the students and the staff alike. For a balanced growth and commitment to give back to society, students get avenues of learning through various services of volunteer- ship conducive to exploration of responsibilities toward self, society and nation. A vital goal of the teaching at Shri Vishwakarma Skill University is the emphasis on 'Entrepreneurship and Skills of Tomorrow'. SVSU operates in an atmosphere of genuine openness to knowledge attainment that cultivates the talents of scholars and creates a culture that builds the community from within. The efforts to collaborate, promote student agency and well-being, and interdisciplinary research are constantly reviewed and reinvigorated. With New Education Policy recommendations, the university aims to raise the skill education system to global levels with a zeal to universalize education and make the Indian youth job-ready not only in India but abroad as well. We are looking forward to making India a “global knowledge superpower” through a system that is increasingly more holistic, ﬂexible, and multi-disciplinary with four pillars of access, equity, quality and accountability. I cordially invite all aspiring students who are interested in expanding their knowledge and enriching their careers to explore our university and join us for a life-changing academic experience. I cordially welcome you to India's very ﬁrst Skill University – Shri Vishwakarma Skill University. Established by the Government of Haryana in 2016 at Dudhola village in Palwal district, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has emerged as the cynosure of skill education. Guided by the ethics of scholarly excellence, skill dynamics, innovation in academics, and student success, the university has erected an infrastructure of skill education from 9th class to Ph. D. degree ensuring a diverse spectrum of skilled community. Sh. Raj Nehru Vice Chancellor SVSU II

[PAGE 9]
Message Prof. (Dr.) R. S. Rathore Registrar Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) is the ﬁrst Government Skill University in the country offering various skill-based courses. SVSU, which is coming up in Village Dudhola of Palwal District, is currently functioning from its transit campus at Gurugram. The University has come up with an innovative work-integrated, dual- education model. Under this model, students are given on-the-job training in the area of their study through various industrial associates. The University has developed a very strong bond with industries. The appointment of Shri Raj Nehru, an eminent professional from the corporate world as the founder Vice Chancellor of the University, has further augmented academic excellence through Industrial expertise. The University is offering variety of Courses at different skill levels. In a one-of-its-kind certiﬁcate programme, youth are being trained in the Haryanvi Folk art of Banchari. In addition, the University is offering industry integrated Diploma, Advance Diploma, Graduation, Post Graduate Diploma, and Post-Graduation Degree level programmes in subjects like Robotics, Mechatronics, HealthCare, Banking, etc. All programmes of the University are as per the learning outcomes enumerated under the National Skills Qualiﬁcation Framework (NSQF) for shifting 'Qualiﬁcation-Based' learning to 'Skill-Based' learning. With the Fourth Industrial Revolution round the corner, the University is working to preparing the youth to develop their potential to make India the skill capital of the world. The University is committed with its vision of becoming an internationally recognized skilling institution to enhance student employability and earning ability. Prof. (Dr.) R. S. Rathore Registrar SVSU III

[PAGE 10]
Message Prof. (Dr.) Jyoti Rana Dean Academic Aﬀairs Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Warm Greetings and Congratulations – Welcome to SVSU! It is with great pleasure that I extend best wishes to you all on behalf of the entire SVSU community. It is our sincere hope that you and your family are well, and able to manage the evolving challenges in the time of pandemic. As dean, I serve as a link between the university and society, as well as between colleges, faculty members, and students. It begins with the life of the student, continues with academic follow-up until the student graduates, and uses the knowledge and skills obtained during their academic education to contribute to building the country. I look forward to ensuring excellence in all university procedures by following the highest standards and protocols in providing services. I seek to attract the best students and ensure to achieve transparency and justice among them throughout their academic careers so that they can effectively contribute to the university's mission of developing a skilled workforce that will serve as the backbone of the industrial society. This is an excellent time to begin your studies at SVSU! Whatever your area of skill, SVSU supports you in realising your goals. We bring a strong synergy of education, research and skill enhancement to the table. Our faculty are exemplary trainers, teachers, scholars and industry experts who bring expertise in a wide range of topical areas. Our certiﬁcate, diploma and graduate programs thrive in a rich mix of resources within the colleges, the university and the community. Our community-engaged and industry-based focus pushes the boundaries by collaborating with a variety of corporate and industrial partners in Haryana and beyond to develop, execute, and assess the changes we want to see and be in our country and throughout the world. SVSU's main objective is to equip students with world-class training facilities and the ﬁnest possibilities accessible in the market. With us, students will be able to match their educational and career goals by combining speciﬁc skills and internship experience in our programmes. We place a strong emphasis on both in-classroom and out-of-classroom activities that provide powerful and long- lasting knowledge, skill, and aptitude. We also value providing a personal touch in our student advising and mentoring so that we can help them thrive and grow intellectually while pursuing their graduate study or professional development goals. I, Dean of Academic Affairs, hope that during the years spend at SVSU; our students will have an enriching experience and leave us not just with knowledge and skills, but also as happy people. Best Wishes! Prof. (Dr.) Jyoti Rana Dean Academic Affair SVSU IV

[PAGE 11]
In tune with its vision of a skilled India, the Government of Haryana established the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), a ﬁrst of its kind in India, in 2016 to be set up at village Dudhola in District Palwal, Haryana. The University is aimed at providing structured skill qualiﬁcation programmes that are aligned with existing and emerging job roles in the industry and other sectors. These programmes are mapped with the National Skills Qualiﬁcations Framework (NSQF) that shall facilitate upward mobility of students from Certiﬁcation to Doctoral level. The University is being built on 82.7 acres of land with state-of- the-art infrastructure at a project cost of about 980 Crores with the capacity to train 12,000 students per year as part of its master plan. Introduction 01

[PAGE 12]
Vision “To emerge as one of the foremost institution of quality in skill education acknowledge by industry, nationally and internationally.” "उ̳ोग जगत कȮ आवΙकता अनुसार राХीय और अंतरȦХीय Ϋर पर कौशल сशȿा के अɥणी संάानȺ मȳ άाнपत होना ।" Mission आ नो भɴा: ɣतवो य̽ु мवΛत: | हमार ेрलए (न:) सभी ओर से (лवश ्व त:) कल्य ाणकारी (भɴा:) лवच ार (ɣतव:) आयȳ (आयन्त ु). Let noble thoughts come to us from every side. To focus on quality of Skill education, aspired by students and admired by Industry, Nationally and Internationally. छाɲȺ ̴ारा इ˸क और उ̳ोग ̴ारा ɷशंпसत, राХीय और अंतरराХीय Ϋर पर कौशल сशȿा ु कȮ गुणव̡ा पर ̶ान कȳ лɴत करना। 02

[PAGE 13]
Values Key Features Earn-While-Learn Dual Education System Theory and practical: learn and apply the skills Entrepreneurial skills Industry integrated programme World class On- The-Job-Training (OJT) facility Mobility and ﬂexibility for multiple entry and exit options Highly subsidized fee Stipend support Placement assistance/job prospects 03

[PAGE 14]
Academic Structure This university is classiﬁed into four Skill Faculties for coordinated teaching in particular and effective governance in general, namely: - Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology - Skill Faculty of Management Studies and Research - Skill Faculty of Applied Sciences and Humanities - Skill Faculty of Agriculture SKILL FACULTY OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY The Skill Faculty offers Certiﬁcate/Diploma/Degree/PG level programmes in collaboration with the industry in sectors like Automobile, CS/IT, Construction, Textile and Apparel, and Green Jobs, conforming to NSQF levels L5 to L10. The Skill Departments under this Faculty are: SKILL FACULTY OF MANAGEMENT STUDIES AND RESEARCH - Skill Department of Banking and Finance - Skill Department of Management Studies - Skill Department of Tourism and Hospitality - Skill Department of Automotive Studies - Skill Department of Construction Management and Technology - Skill Department of Green Technology - Skill Department of CS/IT - Skill Department of Industry 4.0 - Skill Department of Plastic Technology - Skill Department of Textile and Apparel Design The Skill Faculty is offers Certiﬁcate/Diploma/ B. Voc./BBA /M. Voc./ MBA professional programmes in Business Management, Healthcare, Retail, Banking, Financial Services, Hospitality, Food Services &Business Analytics, etc. The Skill Departments are: 04

[PAGE 15]
SKILL FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES The Skill Faculty offers Certiﬁcate/Diploma/Degree/PG level programmes in German Language, Music (Folk Art-Banchari), Medical Laboratory Technology, Public Health, Geo-informatics,Public Services, Yoga and Fitness. The Skill Departments under this Faculty are: - Skill Department of Language and Culture - Skill Department of Life Sciences and Health Care - Skill Department of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences - Skill Department of Science and Computation - Skill Department Security and Surveillance - Skill Department of Sports and Yoga SKILL FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE Skill Faculty of Agriculture (SFA) is running B. Voc. (Agriculture) and M. Voc. (Agriculture). These are the specialised programme designed in the area of agriculture having allied activities. These programmes are a mix of farm and non-farm activities, agriculture extension, applications of technology and micro ﬁnance to create skilled manpower to cater the needs of various industries. In addition to this it has the capacity to create entrepreneurs interested in agriculture and allied areas. These programmes cover skilling of collectivization, organic farming, hydroponics, medicinal plants, bee keeping, livelihood, green house, natural farming, dairy analytics, application of GIS, spreadsheet modelling, research methodology, microﬁnance, micro insurance and agricultural extension modules. They bridge the gap requirement of skilled manpower in various sectors of agriculture. The Skill Department under this Faculty is: - Skill Department of Agriculture 05

[PAGE 16]
LiST OF SHORT TERM PROGRAMMES Duration 3 Months Faculty SFASH Launch Month 05th, January 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 3 In-house SVSU Programme Job Role Music Instructor Eligibility 8th Job Opportunity Freelance Folk Artist, Folk Instrumentalist Stipend Nil Certiﬁcate in Music-Vocal About the Programme - A certiﬁcate in vocal music can help participants advance their career as a singer. Participants will gain an appreciation of music and self-expression through the art form. This course also teaches about the history and theory of singing. A certiﬁcate in vocal music from SVSU will give particiapnts the conﬁdence to start performing as an independent artist in public venues. Programme Outcomes- After completion of the programme candidates will be able to : - Appreciate rich heritage and culture of Haryana. - Learn the Sur and Taal and perform as an independent artist in public venues. How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Programme Coordinator - Dr Kalpana Maheshwari, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number -9540351330 No. of Seats 30 06

[PAGE 17]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFASH Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 3 In-house SVSU Programme Job Role Music Instructor Eligibility 8th Job Opportunity Harmoniumist, Freelance Folk Artist, Folk Instrumentalist Stipend Nil Certiﬁcate in Music Instrumental (Harmonium) About the Programme - It's no wonder we believe playing instruments is a unique talent. Learning how to play an instrument is like grasping how to work with the tools you have in your toolbox. Playing Harmonium not only rejuvenates mind but also improves concentration. Singers use it for background and supporting music also. SVSU is offering a three month course to learn the basics of Harmonium. The teaching-learning will involve theory and practical classes. Programme Outcomes- After completion of the Programme candidates will be able to learn the notes and chord and play Harmonium How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Dr Raj Kumar , Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr Kalpana Maheshwari, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9540351330 No. of Seats 30 Launch Month 05th, January 2023 07

[PAGE 18]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFASH Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner Healthians Job Role Phlebotomist Technician Eligibility 12th No. of Seats 30 Job Opportunity Pathology Labs Stipend Nil Phlebotomist Technician About the Programme - The certiﬁcate course will cover the fundamentals of quality blood assessment and the documentation of the same. During course participants will learn patient preparation and how to collect the specimen from ill patients. The course will help the participants forge ahead in their career and become a valuable part of a medical team by providing an accurate and timely diagnosis. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Provide basic diagnostic services such as correctly collect, transport, receive, accept or reject and store blood /urine/stool and tissue samples. Demonstrate good communication, communicate accurately and appropriately in the role of Phlebotomist. How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr. Manoj kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor (MLT) Mr. Santosh Kumar Yadav, Sr. Skill Instructor (MLT) Mr. Ashish Bagri, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Manoj Kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9540519014 Launch Month 16th January 2023 08

[PAGE 19]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFASH Launch Month 16th January 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner QRG/Rotary Blood Bank Job Role General Duty Assistant Eligibility 10th Job Opportunity Hospitals Stipend Nil General Duty Assistant About the Programme - The general duty assistant course lays special emphasis on including empathetic and ethical behaviour beyond patient care . Some of the key responsibilities of the general duty assistant are to provide daily care and feeding patients, helping patients exercise, assisting patients in and out of bed .The GDA helps in managing the front ofﬁce ,handling emergency services . Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Manage the front ofﬁce and handle emergency services. Provide basic nursing care and manage ill patients. How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr. Manoj kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor (MLT) Mr. Santosh Kumar Yadav, Sr. Skill Instructor (MLT) Mr. Ashish Bagri, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Manoj Kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number -9540519014 No. of Seats 30 09

[PAGE 20]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFASH Launch Month 20th February 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner QRG/Rotary Blood Bank Job Role Geriatics (Elderly care) Eligibility 10th Job Opportunity As Geriatics inHospitals NGOs Stipend Nil Geriatics (Elderly care) About the Programme - The Geriatics (Elderly care) play a major role to promote health by preventing, diagnosing and treating disease in aging patients. A certiﬁcate course can help you to build up career with livelihood as a Geriatics. The Geriatics course duration involves 3 months of classroom training as well as on job training. It is an exciting time with considerable opportunities for geriatrics. Healthcare sector are realising the beneﬁt that geriatrics could bring to their services, especially as they see increasing numbers of older patients with chronic complex diseases, and new collaborative roles are being developed. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Promote health by caring and managing aging patients. Work in an efﬁcient, organized manner and assessing patient safety according to urgency. Provide emergency services to ill patient. How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr. Manoj kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor (MLT) Mr. Santosh Kumar Yadav, Sr. Skill Instructor (MLT) Mr. Ashish Bagri, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Manoj Kumar Sharma, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9540519014 No. of Seats 30 10

[PAGE 21]
Duration 4 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 16 January 2023 Fees INR - 6000 NSQF Level 4 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility 12th Stipend Nil Industrial Data Entry Operator About the Programme - The four month certiﬁcate programme prepares individuals for responsibilities of transcribing/modifying/deleting of worksheets, reports and other documents on the day-to- day basis in the electronic format. The task will vary according to type and structure of the organization. Further, such individual at the work will carry out the search engine optimization process to increase the trafﬁc at the ofﬁcial website. The relevant keyword list, on-page and off-page search engine activities and tracking of keywords are done for the ranking of the documents. Individuals should prepare the documents in accordance with the Intellectual property right and copyright and also publish according to creative common license type. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Undertake the data entry services. Apply the Search engine optimisation technique for effectively moving trafﬁc. Create and publish the data according to the laws and license How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Ms. Madhuri (Skill Instructor) Programme Coordinator - Dr. Aanchal, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9870170860 Job Role Data Entry Operator Job Opportunity DEO in Education, Healthcare, Pharmaceutical, Manufacturing sectors, etc. No. of Seats 20 11

[PAGE 22]
Duration 6 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 16 January 2023 Fees INR - 9000 NSQF Level 6 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility Graduation Stipend Nil Blockchain Solution Architect About the Programme - The six month programme in blockchain solution architect will make participants learn everything from the fundamentals of blockchain to advanced topics like app development, smart contract deployment, and hands-on experience with real-world projects using cutting- edge technology for progressive multiple industry. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Master the foundations of blockchain in addition to advance topics like Application development and smart contract deployment, Apply knowledge in real-world projects using cutting-edge technology. How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Ms. Ritu Rana Programme Coordinator - Ms. Ritu Rana, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 8800510280 Job Role Blockchain Solution Architect Job Opportunity Banking, Insurance, Government, Healthcare, Electronic medical records, IoT No. of Seats 30 12

[PAGE 23]
Duration 2 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 20th February 2023 Fees As per the Norms NSQF Level 3 Industry Partner Roop Auto Eligibility 10th +ITI/ Diploma/ D.Voc/B.Voc Stipend Nil CNC Programming and Soft Skills About the Programme - Department of Automotive Studies under Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology has designed the customized certiﬁcation programme in CNC Programming and Soft Skills for the employees of Roop Auto Pvt. Ltd. This programme train the employees on CNC simulator for skilling and up-skilling in the area of CNC programming which imparts practical skills through the training, an opportunity to learn basics of CNC Machines, Coordinate systems, CNC Part programming, soft skills in communication and correspondence. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to work on the Fundamentals of CNC machining operations: Familiarity with control panel keys, geometry & wear offsets, G & M codes, their use, sequence of programme, Job/tool holding methods. Tool Mounting. Hands on skill training of CNC Programming using CNC Machine/ Simulator: Prepare the basic programme and execution of various machining operations through canned cycle and preparatory & miscellaneous codes. Building and improving skills in communication, business correspondence and presentation How to Apply- Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Mr. Durgesh Gupta/ Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh Programme Coordinator - Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh, Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9501590088 Job Role CNC operator cum machinist Job Opportunity CNC M.T, Automotive MLT, CNC Programmer cum Operator and Automotive MMT No. of Seats 20 13

[PAGE 24]
Duration 2 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 20th February 2023 Fees As per the Govt. Norms NSQF Level M-1: 4 M-2: 5 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility 10th +ITI/ Diploma/ D.Voc/B.Voc Stipend Nil Module 1: CNC Part Programming and Simulations Module 2: CNC Programming and Machining About the Programme - In line with the existing and emerging needs of the Manufacturing Industry (Manufacturing Vision 2030), research and academics, the Department of Automotive Studies under Skill Faculty of Engineering and Technology has designed the Short Term Training Program (STTP) on Basics of CNC and CNC programming customized as per the requirement. STTP will be offered to the students completing/ pursuing ITI in relevant ﬁeld and Diploma in Mechanical Engineering. STTP will train the students on CNC simulator for skilling and up-skilling in the area of CNC programming. This STTP imparts practical skills through the training and an opportunity to learn basics of CNC Machines, Coordinate systems and CNC Part programming. Job Role CNC operator cum machinist Job Opportunity CNC M.T, Automotive Machining Lead Technician, CNC Programmer cum Operator and AMMT No. of Seats 20 Programme Outcomes (Module 1) - - Understanding of the CNC Elements and Programming. - Hands-on Training on Fanuc/ Siemens Control Panels. - Able to develop part programs for designed components, its execution and simulation for different operations on CNC Lathe Machine and Vertical Milling Machine. 14

[PAGE 25]
How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Mr. Durgesh Gupta/ Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh Programme Coordinator - Dr. Mani Kanwar Singh Contact Number - 9501590088 Programme Outcomes (Module 2) - - Understanding of the CNC machine parts and tool selection. - Hands-on Training on key functions of Fanuc/ Siemens Control Panels on CNC turning VMC. - Able to perform operations like OD/ID Turning, facing, drilling, thread cutting, pocket cutting, slotting etc on CNC Turning & VMC. - Able to develop and execute part programs for operations on CNC Lathe Machine and Vertical Milling Machine. 15

[PAGE 26]
Duration 4 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 20th December 2022 Fees INR - 8000 NSQF Level 4 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility 10th Stipend NIL Smart Electrician About the Programme - The certiﬁcate programme aims to train and develop professionals with expertise in electrician activities along with knowledge of best practises and safety guidelines to be followed in the electrical ﬁeld. Further, the programme focuses on developing effective Communication and Soft Skills among the participants for an effective career as an electrician. Programme Outcomes - After completion of the programme the candidate will be able to perform as a professional with expertise in electrician activities. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Mr. Parveen Programme Coordinator - Mr. Parveen, Skill Instructor Contact Number - 8708959647 Job Role Smart Electrician Job Opportunity Corporate Sector No. of Seats 30 16

[PAGE 27]
Duration 8 Months Faculty SFET Launch Month 20th December 2022 Fees INR - 8000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner Jaquar Eligibility 10th Stipend NIL Smart Plumber About the Programme - The certiﬁcate programme trains and develop professionals with expertise in plumbing activities and knowledge of best practises and safety guidelines. In this programme entrepreneurial skill of students will be improved. Also, interacting with customers and working in a residential and commercial site. Student will understand the role of business plan for an entrepreneur. Programme Outcome - After completion of the programme the candidate will be able to perform as a professional with expertise in plumbing activities. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Mr. Upkar Singh Bhatia Programme Coordinator - Mr. Upkar Singh Bhatia, Skill Instructor Contact Number - 8708959647 Job Role Smart Plumber Job Opportunity Corporate Sector No. of Seats 30 17

[PAGE 28]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th January 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 5 Industry Partner SVSU Eligibility Graduation Stipend Nil Google Ads Specialist About the Programme - Google ads specialist programme prepares individuals to be proﬁcient in google advertising which is the backbone of marketing and promotions in the contemporary business world . The programme equips individual to master the art of building and optimizing Google campaigns to deliver results that get the most from advertising investment. Certiﬁed individuals will not only be able to set up their entrepreneurial ventures but will also be able to ﬁnd lucrative job opportunity as Google ads specialist in the corporate world. Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to: Develop campaigns on Google ads. Analyse key metrics for effective management of campaigns How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Dr. Samarth Singh Programme Coordinator - Dr. Samarth Singh, Skill Associate Professor Contact Number - 0124-2746800 Job Role Google ads specialist Job Opportunity Entrepreneur and as Google ads specialist in organisations No. of Seats 20 18

[PAGE 29]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th January 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 7 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility Graduation Stipend Nil Research Associate About the Programme - When it comes to companies, organisational plans, market conditions, and economics in general, a research associate is the one who really does the research. They often work in departments dedicated to research and employ a wide variety of data types in order to aid ﬁrms in the decision-making process. They play a crucial role in the decisions that a company makes about expansion, investment, and long-term viability. The programme will prepare students on key research methods, techniques and skills for a prograssive career in various industries. Programme Outcome- After completion of programme candidate will be able to aquire research skills and Undertake business research. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers - Dr. Shruti Gupta - Skill Associate Professor, Dr. Parul Bhatia - Skill Asst. Prof. , Dr. Anshika Aggarwal - Skill Asst. Prof., Dr. Surabhi Goyal- Skill Asst. Prof. , Dr. Dalip Raina - Skill Asst. Prof. , Dr. Vikas Mishra - Skill Asst. Prof. Programme Coordinator - Dr. Shruti Gupta, Skill Associate Professor Contact Number -9818080363 Job Role Research Associate Job Opportunity RA in Law ﬁrms, Investment banking ﬁrms, Market research ﬁrms No. of Seats 20 19

[PAGE 30]
Duration 3 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th March 2023 Fees INR - 3000 NSQF Level 5 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility Graduation Stipend Nil Business Development Executive About the Programme - The certiﬁcate course will train the individuals on key requirement, duties, responsibility and skills that should be in a BDE. Individuals will be able to drive sales by learning client sourcing and retention strategies . Programme Outcomes- After completion of programme candidate will be able to Source and Handle Customer relationships effectively and efﬁciently. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainer- Dr. Dalip Raina - Skill Assistant Professor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Dalip Raina - Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9419931777 Job Role Sales Executive Job Opportunity Corporate Sector No. of Seats 30 20

[PAGE 31]
Duration 2 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th March 2022 Fees INR - 2000 NSQF Level 3 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility 12th Stipend NIL Tally Assistant About the Programme - The short term programme in Tally trains participants in Tally ERP software which is used for Accounting, Payroll, Billings, Sales and proﬁt Analysis, Auditing, Banking inventory, Taxation such as TDS, VAT and GST . The trainees can have career as accountant in organisations. Programme Outcomes- After successful completion of the programme the student will be able to perform accounting procedures using Tally. Create ledgers , vouchers etc using Tally. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Programme Coordinator - Dr. Aanchal Singh - Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9899504386 Job Role Tally Assistant Job Opportunity Corporate Sector No. of Seats 20 21

[PAGE 32]
Duration 6 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th February 2023 Fees INR - 12000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner Roseate Hotels & Resorts Eligibility 12th Stipend INR 3000 P/M Housekeeping Associate About the Programme - Hotel operations comprises of various departments where Housekeeping is one of those departments which doesn't directly brings the revenue but it is the most important department in hotel on which reputation of hotel depends upon. There is a lot of demand from the hotel industry to get the trained housekeeping staff. The Programme in Housekeeping Associate in collaboration with Roseate Hotels & Resorts will train individuals with promising career in hospitality industry. Programme Outcomes- After successful completion of the programme the student will be able to perform the duties of a room attendant as per the standards of the hospitality industry. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr.. Savita Sharma, Skill Associate Professor Dr. Himanshu Malik, Assistant Professor Mr. Satish , Skill Instructor Mr. Sandeep, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Himanshu Malik, Skill Associate Professor Contact No - 9582240502 Job Role Housekeeping Associate Job Opportunity Hospitality Industry Including OJT Partner No. of Seats 30 22

[PAGE 33]
Duration 6 Months Faculty SFMSR Fees INR - 12000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner Roseate Hotels & Resorts Eligibility 12th Stipend INR 3000 P/M Food & Beverage Server About the Programme - Food and Beverage Service department of a hotel/restaurant is responsible for serving food and beverage items to the guest/customers visiting the hotel/restaurant for having breakfast, lunch or dinner. The Short Term Course "Food and Beverage Server" at SVSU will prepare the enrolled candidates for working in the hotels/restaurants by imparting skills and hands on practice with our industry partner "Roseate Hotels and Resorts". Programme Outcomes- After successful completion of the programme the student will be able to perform the duties of a steward as per the standards of the hospitality industry. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr.. Savita Sharma, Skill Associate Professor Dr. Himanshu Malik, Assistant Professor Mr. Satish , Skill Instructor Mr. Sandeep, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Himanshu Malik, Skill Associate Professor Contact Number - 9582240502 Job Role Food & Beverage Server Job Opportunity Hospitality Industry Including OJT Partner No. of Seats 30 Launch Month 31st October 2022 23

[PAGE 34]
Duration 6 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th January 2023 Fees INR - 12000 NSQF Level 4 Industry Partner Roseate Hotels & Resorts Eligibility 12th Stipend INR 3000 P/M Multi- Cuisine Commi About the Programme - The Short Term Course "Multi-Cuisine Commi" is aimed to provide opprtunity for candidates wishing to start a career of cook in hotel and restaurants industry. The industry is ﬂooded with opportunities for skilled and talented manpower in the kitchen. The Short Term Course offered by SVSU will impart the hands on training with help of On the Job training with our industry partners "Roseate Hotels & Resorts". Programme Outcomes- After successful completion of the programme the student will be able to perform the duties of a commi as per the standards of the hospitality industry. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr.. Savita Sharma, Skill Associate Professor Dr. Himanshu Malik, Assistant Professor Mr. Satish , Skill Instructor Mr. Sandeep, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Himanshu Malik, Skill Associate Professor Contact Number -9582240502 Job Role Multi- Cuisine Commi Job Opportunity Hospitality Industry Including OJT Partner No. of Seats 30 24

[PAGE 35]
Duration 6 Months Faculty SFMSR Launch Month 20th August 2022 Fees INR - 6000 NSQF Level 4 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility Graduation Stipend NIL Satvik Quality Management Auditor About the Programme - A certiﬁcate in satvik quality auditor prepares you for developing, implementing , review quality and safety policies, manage audits, oversee manufacturing and production processes of satvik food. Programme Outcomes - After completion of the programme the candidate will be able to Perform Quality audits of Satvik food. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Trainers- Dr.. Savita Sharma, Skill Associate Professor Dr. Himanshu Malik, Assistant Professor Mr. Satish , Skill Instructor Mr. Sandeep, Skill Instructor Programme Coordinator - Dr. Himanshu Malik, Skill Associate Professor Contact Number - 9582240502 Job Role Satvik quality management auditor Job Opportunity Satvik Quality Auditor in Corporate Sector No. of Seats 30 25

[PAGE 36]
Duration 4 Months Faculty SFA Launch Month 20th January 2023 Fees INR - 12000 NSQF Level 5 In-house SVSU Programme Eligibility 12th Stipend NIL Mushroom Producer About the Programme - The Certiﬁcate programme in Mushroom Producer imparts practical knowledge and skill on how to cultivate wide range of mushrooms. Participants will be able to realize the huge potential of the mushroom business and can start their own entrepreneurial venture. Programme Outcome- After completion of the programme candidate will be able to acquire know how to mushroom cultivation. How to Apply - Apply online through application form available at https://svsu.ac.in Programme Aoordinator - Dr. Anoop Yadav - Skill Assistant Professor Contact Number - 9215346542 Job Role Mushroom Producer Job Opportunity Own entrepreneurial venture No. of Seats 20 26

[PAGE 37]
Calender for Short term programmes Short term programmes Date of launch Fees Contact Info Certiﬁcate in Music-Vocal 05-01-2023 3000 9540351330 Certiﬁcate in Music- Instrumental(Harmonium) 05-01-2023 3000 9540351330 Phlebotomist Technician 16-01-2023 3000 9540519014 General Duty Assistant 16-01-2023 3000 9540519014 Geriatics (Elderly care) 20-02-2023 3000 9540519014 Industrial Data Entry Operator 16-01-2023 6000 9870170860 Blockchain Solution Architect 16-01-2023 9000 8800510280 CNC Programming and Soft Skills 20-02-2023 As per Govt Norms 9501590088 Module 1: CNC Part Programming and Simulations Module 2: CNC Programming And Machining 20-02-2023 As per govt norms 9501590088 Smart Electrician 20-12-2022 8000 8708959647 Smart Plumber 20-12-2022 8000 8708959647 Google Ads Specialist 20-01-2023 3000 9717348855 Research Associate 20-01-2023 3000 9818080363 Business Development Executive 20-03-2023 3000 9419931777 Housekeeping Associate 20-02-2023 12,000 9582240502 Food & Beverage Server 31-10-2022 12,000 9582240502 Multi- Cuisine Commi 20-01-2023 12,000 9582240502 Tally Assistant 20-03-2022 2000 9899504386 Satvik Quality Management Auditor 20-08-2022 6000 9582240502 Mushroom Producer 20-01-2023 12,000 9215346542 27

[PAGE 38]
SVSU Students on OJT 28

[PAGE 39]
29

[PAGE 40]
Indiasills WEL GDGOENI 30

[PAGE 41]
SVSU-ACADEMIC/ INDUSTRY PARTNERS 1 AIC Sangam: AIC-Sangam is set up as a platform to bring together the best minds, resources, and capital-solving sustainability problems, and serve as a launch pad for inclusive and scalable enterprises focused on improving access to energy and resource productivity for the underserved in India. These enterprises will lead the way in driving inclusive development and creation of communities. AIC Sangam is a non-proﬁt, doing incubation and acceleration as a charitable service. 2 Alternative Learning System (ALS) IAS Academy: ALS is India's Premier institution established with the sole aim to initiate, enable, and empower individuals to grow up to be extraordinary Civil Servants. It is committed to their transformation into a developed personality - prepared to face not only competitive examinations but also succeed in brilliantly modelling their respective career paths and to grow up to be extraordinary citizens of the world. The institute has regional centres in different parts of the country. It has world- class infrastructure and technologies to assist students at different times and spaces. 3 ANAND Group: ANAND Group was founded by Deep C Anand, and named after the founder.The company manufactures automotive components. It is responsible for introducing different kinds of automotive equipments into the Indian market. The history of ANAND dates back to 1961, when Mr Deep C Anand, Founder of ANAND and Chairman of the Deep C Anand Foundation, as an enterprising young man of 27 years, set up his ﬁrst business venture - Gabriel India. The ﬂagship company of the Group, Gabriel, was set up in collaboration with Maremont Corporation (now Gabriel Ride Control Products of ArvinMeritor Inc.), USA, for manufacturing shock absorbers at Mulund in Mumbai. 4 Bikanervala: Bikanervala Foods Pvt. Ltd. is a leading manufacturer of Indian foods, snacks, andsweets, and restaurateur in India and abroad. Bikanervala has paid ample attention to the aspect of training and skilling of its workforce and has sufﬁcient infrastructure. 5 Concentrix: Concentrix, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: SNX), is a technology enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement and improvement of business performance for some of the world's best brands. Every day, from more than 40 countries and across 6 continents, their staffs deliver next- generation customer experience and helps companies connect better with their customers. They create better business outcomes and differentiate their clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and ﬁnancial services; insurance; healthcare; technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; retail and e- commerce; travel and transportation; and energy and public-sector. 31

[PAGE 42]
7 East West Automation Tech Private Limited: East West Automation is an ISO 9001, TS-16942 &UL-approved company which was established in 1994. The company is a well- established manufacturer and exporter of wiring harnesses for a wide range of products like Automotive Harness, Telecom Harness, CNG Harness, White Goods Harness, UPS Inverter Harness, etc. and the entire range of Molex housings, terminals, connectors, and headers. The company strives to become the preferred supplier in its product segment. It has manufacturing facilities in Gurugram and Bahadurgarh. The company has complete know- how regarding solutions for its customers as regards manufacturing, designing, and developing, from ﬁrst principles'concept to supplying customized products to its customers. 8 Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA): Gurugram is governed by theMunicipal Corporation of Gurugram which follows a Mayor-Council system. GMDA (Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority) was formed in 2017. GMDA looks after various departments such as Urban Planning, GeoSpatial, Finance, Admin, etc. It has not also improved a lot of the city's infrastructure but also the quality of life for local residents. 9 HDFC Bank: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC) was amongst theﬁrst to receive an 'in principle' approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up a bank in the private sector, as part of RBI's liberalisation of the Indian Banking Industry in 1994. The bank was incorporated in August 1994 in the name of 'HDFC Bank Limited' with its registered ofﬁce in Mumbai, India. HDFC Bank commenced operations as a Scheduled Commercial Bank in January 1995. 10 Hero MotoCorp: Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (Formerly Hero Honda Motors Ltd.) is the world's largest manufacturer of two-wheelers since 2001, with its current turnover of Rs. 32,000 Crores. Hero MotoCorp commenced production as a joint venture between Hero Cycles of India and Honda of Japan in 1984, based on Japanese know-how and technology. In August 2011, the company was renamed Hero MotoCorp, as a new public company under Mr. Brijmohan Lal Munjal, as Founder, with its Head Ofﬁce at New Delhi. Hero MotoCorp has manufacturing units at Dharuhera, Gurugram, Haridwar, Neemrana, and Vadodara. Their products include motorcycles and scooters. 11 Jay Bharat Maruti (JBM) Group: JBM group, a joint venture with Maruti Suzuki India Limited(MSIL), is keeping pace with the steep rise in demand and quality of passenger cars/vehicles. Even in the backdrop of entry of international auto players in the country, JBM has successfully expanded its manufacturing capacity and capability. Its world–class manufacturing capabilities include imported and indigenous press lines and robotic welding lines as well as plating and painting facilities. The JBM Group has a pan-India presence with over 40 production units spread across the country. 12 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.: Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (formerly Maruti Udyog Ltd.) is India's largest passenger car company, accounting for over 50 per cent of the domestic car market. The company offers a full range of cars from the entry-level Maruti Alto to the stylish hatchbacks Ritz, A-star, Swift, Wagon R, and Estillo, sedans DZire and SX4 and, the sports utility vehicle, Grand Vitara. The company is a subsidiary of Suzuki Motor Corporation of Japan. The company is engaged in the business of manufacturing, purchase, and sale of motor vehicles and spare parts (automobiles). They have four plants, three located at Palam- Gurgaon Road, Gurgaon, Haryana, and one located at Manesar Industrial Town, Gurgaon, Haryana. 32

[PAGE 43]
13 Shivansh Farming: Shivam Farming is basically deals with the dairy and organic fertilizer. This ﬁrm incorporated under the partnership Act, 1932 having its registered ofﬁce at Jaipur Rajasthan. The dairy is developed for bottling and marketing of milk of cow of Gir Breed. The Dairy plant is located in an organic farm with facility to produce organic manure. This initiative started to identify nearly-free, high impact solutions for millions small-plot farmers around the world. Most farmers in developing countries are caught in never-ending debt cycles from purchasing expensive farm inputs. Shivansh Farming techniques offer a clear path for farmers to quickly revive the natural fertility of their soil using only materials a farmer could easily access, such as leaves, animal manure, and water. Much of the work is inspired by ancient farming practices that sustained civilization for hundreds of generations. It’s quite simple; healthy soil, grows strong plants. This was the focus of previous generations of farmers, and it remains the focus of the foundation’s efforts today. 14 Mount Talent: Mount Talent Consulting (MTC) is the best recruitment agency in India. It is an ISO9001:2008 Certiﬁed Recruitment Company, a member of CII, NSDC, and is one of India's leading global HR recruitment agencies specializing in multiple facets of HR and Knowledge Services-Trainings,Assessments,& Consulting. With time, MTC has evolved to cater to a diverse set of clients spread across different geographies. We constantly strive to maximize our client's ROI (Return on Investment) and work on increasing the top line (Revenue) of the client's business by delivering the best. MTC has reached out to an array of clients with functions such as Recruitments, Consulting,& Knowledge Services through its team of young & dynamic professionals. 15 QuadSun Solar Pvt Ltd: QuadSun Solar, a subsidiary of Padmini Mechatronics VNA, witha turnover of more than 300 Crores and its manufacturing unit in Gurugram, is in the ﬁeld of harnessing non-traditional energy resources, with special emphasis on solar energy applications. It is credited with many patents and proprietary technologies, such as Concentrated Solar Thermal (CST). Its proprietary and patented technology (CST) is widely accepted on a global scale. Its CST based 500 systems are already installed at 34 sites all over the country. 16 Roop Auto: Roop Automotives Ltd. (RAL) is one of the largest OEM suppliers of auto componentslike steering yokes, automotive connecting rods, automotive housing, differential housings, connecting rods, auto steering parts, and safety automotive parts. RAL has established its name in the auto components industry and has a strong presence in Tier-II segment of the industry. 17 Senior India: Senior India Private Limited is a UK-based MNC with its headquarters in London.Itis registered in the London Stock Exchange. Senior has operations in 14 countries with 33 manufacturing facilities worldwide. Senior India Private Limited is a 100% subsidiary of Senior PLC UK. Senior India was established in 1993 under the name of Inalsa Flexonics that was taken over by the Senior Group in 1998. Senior designs, manufactures, and markets high- technology components and systems for the principal original equipment producers worldwide in aerospace, defence, land vehicles, and energy markets. Senior India is a leading manufacturer of Automotive Flexible Exhaust Connectors (Bellow and Interlock types), and SS Bellows. Senior India has also introduced engine products, viz. EGR coolers, Fuel rails, EGR tubes, Turbo Oil Drains, Turbo Oil Feeds, etc. 33

[PAGE 44]
18 SKH Metals Ltd.: Established in the year 1986, Mark Auto was rechristened SKH Metals in 2006 with the management takeover by Krishna Group. It has since then grown from strength to strength in last 7 Years along with its principal customer, Maruti Suzuki. SKH Metals was awarded major business and thus followed MSIL in establishing a new plant in Manesar. This new facility is spread over 4 acres. This facility was further expanded to 6 acres in 2009-10 to service the growing business of MSIL. With MSIL's foray into technology, SKH Metals also established various technical alliances with the leading Global Tier 1 auto component manufacturers. With its special prowess and expertise, SKH Metals Limited has for three decades been manufacturing products like Fuel Tanks, Axle Housings, and Sheet Metal Welded Assemblies, Suspension Frames, and control arms. 19 Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd.: Amazon Internet Services (P) Ltd. is one of the industry partners in SVSU's AICTE approved courses. This association is to develop cloud- ready job skills by deploying education, training and certiﬁcation. In AWS educate program focus is on cloud-related learning. AWS Educate is used in more than 200 countries and territories. It connects 2,400 institutions, over 10,000 educators, and hundreds of thousands of students. AWS Educate also connects companies hiring for cloud skills to qualiﬁed student job seekers with the AWS Educate Job Board. Through AWS Educate, students and educators have access to content and programs developed to skill up for cloud careers in growing ﬁelds. 20 EnnobleIP: Ennoble IP is an IP Consultancy focused to work for STARTUPS, SMEs, UNIVERSITIES & RESEARCH INSTITUTE. Indian Universities, SMEs and startups have huge potential and do lot of innovations, but lack of awareness put them behind and simultaneously lose their valuable IP assets. We at Ennoble IP take pledge to raise this awareness among Indian Entity and protect their IP through best solution at reasonable cost. Intellectual Property is being increasingly viewed as one of the most valuable intangible assets. Managing this important asset requires strategic planning along the lines of the company's vision. We help clients identify, protect, manage and exploit their Intellectual Property to its full potential. 21 QRG Hospital: QRG Super Speciality Hospital isn’t just another hospital but an amalgamation of the best services the healthcare segment can offer. Their excellent medical infrastructure houses a Critical Care Medicine unit for patients with life threatening diseases. Not just that, their highly qualiﬁed team of medical professionals and advanced software system make them an ideal hospital for patients from all walks of life. 22 Mazar LLP: Mazars is a leading independent and integrated international organization, which specializes in providing assurance, tax and advisory services. It is also among the leading organizations providing professional services to large international corporate, SMEs and individuals in India. With over 1000 professional staff we offer our clients the advantage of a nation-wide presence.We are advisors and auditors to large Indian and International companies. Our services include Assurance, Tax, Corporate Finance, Business Advisory, Forensic Services, Insolvency and Company Secretarial services. 34

[PAGE 45]
23 Grant Thornton: Grant Thornton is one of the largest fully integrated Assurance, Tax and Advisory ﬁrms in the country. With 4,500+ people and presence in 15 locations across 13 cities, they help dynamic clients unlock their potential for growth. They constantly pursue new ideas and embrace a culture of curiosity, agility and innovation. They deliver the greatest value by collaborating across services to create innovative, tailored solutions to resolve clients' complex challenges. 24 Jayem Industries: Jayem Auto Industries Pvt. Ltd. has metamorphosed from its humble beginnings as a gasket manufacturer to an avant-garde industrial enterprise offering Gaskets, Rubber Hoses & Moulded Components and Compressed Fiber Jointing Sheets for a host of Automotive and Industrial applications. An ISO/TS: 16949 organization, Jayem is marked by its resolute drive to excel. Innovation, not just in process or technology but innovation of thought has made it a preferred partner and trusted supplier to leading Automotive giants and elite names in industries like Agriculture, Compressor, Earth Moving Equipment, Petrochemical and Engineering. 26 IIMBx: IIMBx' s vision is to create a positive social impact by leveraging educational technology to create a world-class repository of digital courseware in management for learners across the globe. In the long run, IIMBx aims to be a thought leader and preferred digital hub for management education supporting managers, academics and institutions across Asia and Africa. IIMBx, the digital learning initiative of IIMB, is founded on the philosophy that everyone – regardless of their ﬁnancial, academic, or social backgrounds – should have access to high quality education. Led by IIMB`s world class faculty, IIMBx started offering Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) in 2014 in partnership with edX – a not for proﬁt online initiative of Harvard and MIT. Today IIMBx courses are available on multiple platforms including SWAYAM, the national learning portal of India, edX and IIMBx (open edX). 35

[PAGE 46]
Our Alumni Says – Big Dreams Come True Here!!! Mr. Gurmeet Singh: My journey in SVSU has been full of varied yet rich experiences. My dream of getting into the corporate world could only be fulﬁlled with SVSU. The continuous practical exposure has helped me to enhance my personality and develop key soft skills like communication, leadership , conﬁdence, decision making and an attitude to bring positive approach to challenges of life. I, a student of M.Voc. Banking & Finance got placed through campus placements, at through campus placements, at the position of Business Development Associate with a CTC of 10 lac s per annum. I sincerely thank the University for giving me a n opportunity to start my career with a globally-renowned company. Mr. Vishal: SVSU has given me a platform to enhance my personality. It has helped me to grow & achieve new heights in my career. I have always dreamt of working in a reputed MNC. Through SVSU Dual Industry Integration Model, I got the chance to do my On-job-training at Concentrix while pursuing B.Voc. in BPM & Analytics. With me hard work & support of my mentors I got selected by Concentrix as Senior Representative, HR. I am blessed to have been placed at one of the biggest avenues of the industry. I am really grateful to the University who have given me an opportunity to make my dream a reality. Ms. Manjeet Kumari: SVSU has a team of excellent faculties who had always guided me not only as a teacher but as true mentors. While I was pursuing PG Diploma in Public Health, I got placed through the campus interview for the position of Project Coordinator at Brand Mantra Delhi but I decided to pursue higher education from the University and I am currently pursuing M.Voc. in Pub l i c health. I enhanced my skil l sets, developed critical thinking ability an d learned novel ways to approach problem-solving. Ms. Bhagya Shree: To support my family ﬁnancially and at the same to enhance my own skills, I took admission I M.Voc. Banking and Finance with OJT in HDFC With rigorous hard work and challenges durin OJT, I ﬁnally got selecte d as a RR B -Teller in HDFC Bank Ltd. at th e package of 3.18 lacs per annum. I am thankful to the University for providing the Dual Industry Integrated Model. 36

[PAGE 47]
Mr. Moti Lal: I am from a small district of Haryana and got admission in Diploma in Press Tool & Die Maintenance & Stamping. The “Earn While Learn” model of the University has helped me to earn income right away while learning workplace and life skills with the help of mentors and classroom training. I got placed through the campus interview as an Operator at Nagata India Pvt. Ltd. Now, I am working as an Associate with the same organization. I owe my success to SVSU, my friends and my parents for believing in me and always supporting me to build a great career for myself. Mr. Pawan Kumar: I am from a village named Banchari. The village literacy rate is 56.5%. With no industry around the people are either dependent on meager agricultural income or income through practicing Banchari Folk Art. It is evident that this skill or artwork does not have any organized industry in private or public life, where artists can straight way get employment. Due to severe economic constraints, access to quality education is denied to Banchari folk artists and their children. This in turn reduces them to an unskilled labour. I was losing my self- respect and identity. But then I found a ray of light through Shri Vishwakarma Skill University where I opted for one-year diploma course in Banchari Folk Art with an aim to not only revive these art forms, but also to get them nationally and internationally recognized. During this course I learnt to play nagada as well as instruments like manjira, jhanjh, and used to do chorus singing. I was among the few artists who do the typical Banchari Folk Art dance. My dance skills were appreciated by everyone and soon my picture came on SVSU’s main posters, which gave me a great amount of fame and conﬁdence. I started getting good oﬀers for conducting performances in huge programmes. The short exposure in SVSU to unskilled and semi-skilled artists from the general area of Banchari village, has brought in a qualitative change in my life. 37

[PAGE 48]
Glimps equitas MegaJobFalr2021

[PAGE 49]
SVSU Initegrated Skill Model Skill Ph.D Research Job Ph.D Scientist Opportunity L10 M.Voc. L9 rocess Dipleru P.G. Horizontal Manager Mobility Diploma Specialist Process Robotics B.Voc. Lead L7 Financial Adaec B.Tech. Inclusion Diploma Advanced Officer Vertical Diploma Supervisor Progression Supervisor Sr. Executive D.Voc./ 12" Diploma L5 Technician Executive Meltd Entry Operator Robeotics/Automation Exit Science L4 12h Junior Technician Science PLC/Automation Jr.Executive 11" Assistant Junior Operator 10 L2 10 Assistant Operator DataEntryOperator SallFacslty olErgjiseerlng & Tachnologr Slal Faculy dlHanagemmt Shulies & Bestars SVSU Shil Faculty Feeder School NATIONALSKILL QUALIFICATIONFRAMEWORK (NSOF) Migratlon Elementry Education (Class 1"to Class 8h) Eary/Ea Multipsint Mobilty 39

[PAGE 50]
Our Industry Partners GMDA EAST WEST AUTOMATION Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar Technologies 18001800147 Mobile: +919911346690 Call us on Toll Free Number www.svsu.ac.in For more details visit us at 40

[PAGE 51]
[NO EXTRACTABLE TEXT FOUND]

[PAGE 52]
Website: www.svsu.ac.in Contact No: +91-124-2746800, 18001800147 Email ID: admissions@svsu.ac.in, info@svsu.ac.in Shri Vishwakarma Skill University - Dudhola-Palwal, Haryana Transit ofﬁce: Plot 147, Sector 44, Gurugram -122003, Haryana /SVSUPALWAL /Shri Vishwakarma Skill University /svsuniversity /svsu_oﬃcial /svsuindia


--- DOCUMENT: updated_bulletin.pdf ---

[PAGE 1]
Information Bulletin Admission 2025-26  Programme Details - 2025-26  Supernumerary seats  Application fee  Selection Criteria  Tentative Schedule of Admission  Programme Details - 2025-26 S. No. Skill Faculty Programme Industry Partner* Eligibility Intake (1st Sem) 1 Skill Faculty of Agriculture Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Agriculture Farmus, Grow my Crops, Sabri.AI, Edible Routes, Bluegreens 10+2 or Equivalent 30 2 Master of Vocation (M. Voc.) Agriculture Farmus, Grow my Crops, Sabri.AI, Edible Routes, Bluegreens B.Voc Agriculture or Graduation in any discipline with 50% marks 20 3 Diploma in Vocation (D.Voc.) Horticulture Bluegreens, Shivansh Farming 10th Pass or Equivalent 30 4 Skill Faculty of Management Research and Studies (SFMSR) B. Com Hons. /Hons. with Research 10+2 in Commerce or 10+2 in other stream with Mathematics/Economics with minimum 50% marks or any other Equivalent Examination 60 5 B. Voc. Management (Financial Services) Hons. /Hons. With Research 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 6 MBA Mazars, Desire Graduation With 50% Marks 30 7 MBA (Business Analytics) Mazars, Desire Graduation With 50% Marks 30 8 Bachelor of Hotel Management Courtyard, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country, Sarvatra 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 9 Diploma of Vocation (D.Voc) Office Management 10th or Equivalent 30 10 BBA - BPM and Analytics (Hons. / Hons. With Research) Concentrix, Cyfuture 10+2 or 10th plus (2Years or 3 years) Diploma or 10th plus ITI (2 Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 11 BBA MSIL/ Spencer/ Frontier Group 10+2 or Equivalent 120

[PAGE 2]
12 Skill Faculty of Management Research and Studies (SFMSR) Undergraduate Diploma in Airlines Management 10+2 or Equivalent or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field 30 13 Undergraduate Certificate in Food Production & Traditional Sweets Courtyard, Biiyani by Kilo, Bikanerwala, Roseate, Country, Sarvatra 10+2 or 10th with two years of experience or Equivalent 20 14 MBA (Working Professional) Graduation with 3yr. Experience 20 15 M.Voc. Management (HRM) Mount Talent, Dzire Group B.Voc./ Graduation with 50% Marks 20 16 M.Voc Management Banking & Finance HDFC Bank, J & K Bank Graduation with 50% Marks 20 17 Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology (SFET) Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Engineering As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 18 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Computer Science & Engineering (AI & ML) Falconix, Zetrance, Airport Authority of India, Darkblue Devops As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 19 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Electrical Engineering Zetrance, JBM Group As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 30 20 Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Mechanical and Smart Manufacturing Schneider Electric, JBM Group, Zetrance, HL Mando Softtech Pvt. Ltd. As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 30 21 Bachelor in Computer Applications BCA/ BCA (Honours) Specialization in AI&ML/Data Science/ BCA (Honours with Research) Passed 10+2 examination or equivalent examination from any recognized board with 50% marks in aggregate (45% in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST category of Haryana only). 120 22 Master of Computer Application (MCA) Darkblue Devops Vastav Intellect Globus Eight YBI Foundation Passed any graduation degree (e.g.: B.E. / B.Tech./ B.Sc / B.Com. / B.A./ B. Voc./ BCA etc.,) preferably with Mathematics at 10+2 level or at Graduation Level. 60 23 Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) Solar Technology Quadsun, Solar Solution 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 24 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Anand Group 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 25 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Hero 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30

[PAGE 3]
26 Skill Faculty of Engineering & Technology (SFET) Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc.) Mechatronics Hero MotoCorp 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in Automotive/Capital Goods &Manufacturing sector or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 27 Bachelor of Vocation (B.Voc. / Hons. with Research) Robotics and Automation JBM Group 10+2 (PCM) or 10+2 with Mathematics and L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10 plus I.T.I. (Two Years) with one language subject (Hindi or English) 30 28 Diploma in Computer Science & Engineering As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 29 Diploma Mechanical Engineering JBM Group As per AICTE / HSTES Norms 60 30 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Draughtsmanship (Civil) NCB, BMTPC 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 31 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing SKH/SI 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 32 Diploma of Vocation (D. Voc.) Mechanical Manufacturing Roop Auto 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 33 Diploma in Industrial Electronics East West Automation Pvt. Ltd. 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 34 Diploma Computer Generative AI / Cyber Security 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 35 Diploma in Industrial Electronics Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd. 10th (Science and Mathematics) or Equivalent 30 36 Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Robotics and Automation JBM Group, Orangewood B.Tech / B.E. in ECE/CSE/IT/Mechanical/ M.Sc. (Electronics / IT) / MCA or Other related disciplines from any recognized university/institutions with a minimum of 55% marks or Equivalent grade(45% marks or Equivalent grade for Scheduled Caste/ Schedule Tribes). GATE qualified / Industry Experience candidates will be given preference. 18 37 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging(PGDSDP)  B.E /B.Tech completed students of the following branches: Electronics/Electronics & Communication / Electrical/ Electrical and Electronics/Instrumentation/ Biomedical /Computer Science/Information Technology/ or M.Sc. in Electronics/Physics (with relevant specialization).  B.E /B.Tech ongoing students of the above branches are eligible to enrol however preference will be given to applicants with experience.  Minimum 50% aggregate  Basic knowledge of semiconductor devices and circuits preferred 20 38 Undergraduate Diploma in Interior Design 12th plus PCM to 12th (Any stream) 30

[PAGE 4]
39 Skill Faculty of Applied Science and Humanities (SFASH) Undergraduate Diploma in Japanese Language 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 20 40 Undergraduate Certificate in Music (Folk Art - Banchari/Instrumental/Vocal) 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 20 41 Undergraduate Certificate in Animation, Multimedia and Graphics 10+2 or 10 plus ( 2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma or 10th Plus ITI (Two Years) with one Language Subject (Hindi/English) 20 42 B.Sc. (Yoga & Spiritual Science) Ayush Department 10+2 or 10 plus ( 2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma or 10th Plus ITI (Two Years) with one Language Subject (Hindi/English) 30 43 M.Sc. MLT (Microbiology) B.Voc. MLT/B.Sc. MLT/BMLS/BMLT 20 44 B.Voc. (Medical Laboratory Technology) Honours with Research Healthians, QRG, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital, Neuberg 10+2 (PCB) or 10+2 and L4 Certificate in relevant field or 10th plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma in relevant field for Lateral Entry in 2nd Year. 30 45 Undergraduate Diploma in German Language Concentrix 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 30 46 B.Voc. (Public Services) UDAAN IAS Academy 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English) 30 47 B.Sc. Mathematics and Computing (Hons. with Research) 10+2 or equivalent with Mathematics as a compulsory subject with a minimum 50% marks. Relaxation as per UGC norms. 30 48 B.Sc. Clinical Psychology Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital 10+2 or 10th Plus (2 Years or 3 Years) Diploma Or 10th Plus I.T.I. (2 Years) with one Language subject (Hindi or English)/NCrF Level 4.0 30 49 PG Diploma Criminal Forensics Any Graduate 20

[PAGE 5]
50 M.Sc. Geo-informatics GMDA Bachelor's degree in the fields of Geography / Environmental Science / Forestry / Chemistry / Physics / Geology / Geophysics / Mathematics / Oceanography/ Agriculture/ Atmospheric Sciences/ Climatology/ Information Science/ Computer Science/ Disaster Management/ Engineering / Town Planning / Architecture / Botany/ Zoology/ allied disciplines with at least 50% marks or OR Masters in Geography with at least 50% marks or equivalent grade in aggregate 20 51 PG Diploma Public Policy IMPRL Any Graduate 20 52 M.Sc. Clinical Psychology Tulasi Healthcare, Citizen Hospital, Shri Sathya Sai Sanjeevni Hospital Any Graduate 20 53 M.A. English Graduation with minimum 50% marks. Relaxation as per UGC norms. 30 Note: 1. Relaxation in the minimum qualifying marks will be granted to SC/ST/OBC (Non-creamy Layer), PwD, and EWS candidates as per UGC regulations. 2. Students can apply for more than one programme using the same registration, however, a separate online admission form must be filed out for each programme along with the requisite fee.  Supernumerary seats • 02 seats will be available in each programme with an intake up to 30 for the domicile/ residents of Dudhola village Panchayat (s), who have gifted their land free of cost/on- lease to the state government (As per notification of the State Government). • 01 seat is reserved for migrants from J&K in each programme. • 10% seats are offered to women candidate in each programme (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/MBA Executive/ Lateral Entry). • 01 seat for the industry sponsored women candidate in each programme (Except B.Tech/M.Tech/MBA/Executive MBA/ M.Phil (CP)/Lateral Entry).. • The supernumerary seats for PM Cares students will be as per govt./statutory guidelines. • The provision for supernumerary seats for international students may be made as per UGC directions. • The Supernumerary seats for AICTE approved programmes will be as per AICTE/HSTES.

[PAGE 6]
 Application fee for the admission session 2025-26 is same as in session 2024-25: Sr. No. Category Portal category code Fee (Rs.) 1. AIC A 500/- 2. HOGC A 500/- 3 BC of Haryana B 250/- 4 EWS of Haryana B 250/- 5 Jammu & Kashmiri Migrants B 250/- 6 Female of Haryana C NIL 7 SC of Haryana C NIL 8 ST of Haryana C NIL 9 PwD of Haryana C NIL 10 Dudhola Candidates D 100/- 11 Saksham Yuva of Haryana E 50/- 12 Abhinandan: Veer Balidani Kritgayata Yojna (AVBKY) Wards & Spouse of Martyrs and Gallantry awards winners F 50/- 13 Transgender G NIL  Selection Criteria: Sr. No. Programmes Selection Criteria 1. AICTE approved Management programmes (MBA and BBA) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the AICTE for session 2025-26. 2. AICTE approved Engineering programmes (M.Tech, B.Tech & Diploma in Engineering) Admissions shall be conducted as per guidelines issued by the Haryana State Technical Education Society under the Department of Technical Education, Haryana, for session 2025-26 3. Programmes offered with OJT in association with industry partners (Except AICTE approved) 80% weightage to marks obtained in qualifying exam. 20% weightage to marks obtained in personal interview/Group discussion with industry. 4. Programmes other than mentioned at Sr. no. 1, 2 & 3 above. On the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying exam.

[PAGE 7]
 Tentative Schedule of admission for UG certificate/UG Diploma/Diploma/D.Voc/UG programmes-B.Voc/ BBA/B.Com/B. Hotel Management, etc. Sr. No. Activity Date 1. Online Filling of application form 15th May 2025 onwards 2. The last date for Online Submission of Application Form 25th June 2025 3. Result of Candidates Selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion 08th July 2025 4. Personal Interview/Group Discussion 10th July 2025- 15th July 2025 5. 1st Counselling & 2nd Counselling 17th July 2025 – 25th July 2025 7. Final Merit 29th July 2025 8. Commencement of Programme 04th Aug 2025 9. Spot counselling (In case of any vacancy only) 14th Aug 2025 - 18th Aug 2025  Tentative Schedule of Events for PG Diploma/PG Programmes/M.Voc./MBA/M.Tech /M.Sc., etc. Sr. No. Activity Date 1 Online Filling of the application form 16th June 2025 2 Last Date for online Submission of application form 21st July 2025 3 Result of candidates selected for Personal Interview/ Group Discussion by each skill faculty 24th July 2025 4 Personal Interview/Group Discussion 29th to 31st July 2025 5 1st Counselling 06th – 07th August, 2025 6 2nd Counselling 08th August 2025 7 Final Merit 13th August 2025 8 Commencement of Programme 14th August 2025 9 Spot counselling (In case of vacancy) 18th -29th August, 2025

[PAGE 8]
Note: - These are tentative dates any change may be notified on University website and no separate communication may be made. The Schedule of Admission in B.Tech. courses and Diploma (Engineering) shall be same as per notified by HSTES, Haryana for 2025-26.  Fee Structure (For 1st Year) Fee Structure for Professional/Vocational Programme-2025-26 • D.Voc./UG Certificate/UG Diploma/Diploma/B.Voc./BBA/BCA/BCA integrated MCA/B.Sc/B.Com(H)/B.HM/M.Voc./M.Sc./MBA /PGD: - 1. Registration Fees: 360/- (One Time Fee) S. No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) Security Fund (One Time Fee) Admission Fees (One Time Fee) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examinati on Fee Student Activity Fund Developme nt Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semeste r) 1 B.Voc./B.Sc. 6/8 1000 500 12600 3000 800 1500 1200 19100 2 BBA/B. Com. (Hons. /Research) 6/8 1000 500 15750 3000 800 1500 1200 22250 3 Bachelor in Computer Applications BCA/ BCA(Honours) Specialization in AI&ML/Data Science/ BCA (Honours with Research) 6/8 1000 500 33500 3000 800 1500 1200 40000 4 MCA 4 1000 500 43500 3000 800 1500 1200 50000 5 B. Hotel Management 8 1000 500 31500 3000 800 1500 1200 38000 6 Undergraduate Certificate (1 yr.) 2 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950 7 D.Voc. (2 years) 4 1000 500 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850 8 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 9 PG Diploma 2 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 10 PG Diploma in Semiconductor Device Packaging (PGDSDP) 2 1000 500 23500 3000 800 1500 1200 30000 11 UG Certificate in Music (Folk Art-Banchari) 2 1000 500 525 3000 800 1500 1200 7025 12 UG Diploma 4 1000 500 9450 3000 800 1500 1200 15950

[PAGE 9]
13 B.Sc Clinical Psychology 6 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 14 M.A. English 4 1000 500 14700 3000 800 1500 1200 21200 15 M.Sc Clinical Psychology 4 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 16 PG Diploma in Criminal Forensic 2 2000 2000 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 17 MBA working Professional 4 2000 2000 44100 3000 3000 6000 6000 62100 18 Diploma (Computer) Generative AI/ Cyber Security 6 2000 2000 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 19 PG Diploma Public Policy 2 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000 20 UG Diploma in Airlines Management 6 2000 2000 21000 3000 3000 2000 2000 31000 Fee Structure for Technical Programme-2025-26 • One Time Fees for B.Tech./M. Tech. /MBA: - 1. Security Fund: -2000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 2000/- 3. Registration Fees: 360/- S.No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examination Fee Student Activity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Tech. 8 35700 3000 3000 7000 3000 51700 2 M. Tech. 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 3 MBA (General) 4 22575 3000 3000 7000 3000 38575 4 MBA (Business Analytics) 4 25200 3000 3000 7000 3000 41200 5 Diploma Engineering 6 7350 3000 800 1500 1200 13850

[PAGE 10]
Fee Structure Industry Sponsored Candidate for Vocational Programme 2025-26 • One Time Fees for B. Voc./BBA/Diploma/D. Voc./M. Voc./M.Sc./PGD/BHM/B. Com: - 1. Security Fund: -1000/- 2. Admission Fees: - 500/- 3. Registration Fees: 360/- S. No. Programme Duration of Course (Semesters) SEMESTER WISE FEE Tuition Fee Examination Fee Student Activity Fund Development Fund Misc. Fund Total (Per semester) 1 B. Voc. 6 14700 2500 800 1500 1200 20700 2 BBA/B. Com 6/8 21000 2500 800 1500 1200 27000 3 BHM 8 36750 2500 800 1500 1200 42750 4 Diploma 2 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 5 D.Voc./ Diploma 6 9450 2500 800 1500 1200 15450 6 M.Voc./M.Sc. 4 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850 7 PG Diploma 2 17850 2500 800 1500 1200 23850
