 
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY 
 
 
ORDINANCE 
Governing Programmes Leading to 
Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
Dudhola, Palwal-121102, Haryana 
Transit office: Plot 147, Sector 44, Gurugram-122001, Haryana 
Website: www.svsu.ac.in 
Contact No: +91-124-234467 
 
 
 
 
 

 
ORDINANCE-DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 
In accordance with UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for the 
Award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulations, 2016 
(w.e.f. 2020-21) 
1. Preamble 
 
The Ph.D programme is an integral component of the Skill education in the University. All the 
Skill Faculty will offer Ph.D programmes in identified thrust areas which are based on facilities 
available and market requirements. Ph.D. programmes of University will pivot around challenges 
and expectations faced by the industries in terms of creativity, innovation, excellence, 
enhancement of efficiency and optimization in the domain of – Conceptualization & 
identification, Designing, Manufacturing, Processing, Operations, Quality, Policy etc. Each year 
a consolidated list of number of seats available will be prepared by the University for which the 
admission to be made as per the process laid down in this Ordinance. 
(a) The ordinance conforms to University Grants Commission Gazette (Minimum Standards and 
Procedure for award of M.Phil/Ph.D Degrees) Regulations, 2016 
(b) If the Ph. D degree is awarded by a foreign university the university considering such a degree 
shall refer the issue to a standing committee constituted for the purpose of determining the 
equivalence of the degree awarded by the foreign university 
(c) The University shall not conduct the Ph.D programmes through distance education Mode. 
(d) Part time Ph.D will be allowed provided all the conditions mentioned in the extant Ph.D 
regulations are met. 
2. Definitions 
This Ordinance may be called Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Ordinance titled ‘Governing 
Programmes Leading to Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) Degree’. 
(a) “University” shall mean Shri Vishwakarma skill University 
(b) Degree” shall mean the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) 
(c) “Ph.D.” shall mean Doctor of Philosophy. 
(d) “Dean” shall mean Dean of the concerned Faculty, appointed by the University. 
(e) Faculty” shall mean a skill Faculty of the University. 
(f) “COE” shall mean Controller of Examinations of the University. 
(g) “RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the Faculty 
(h) “SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee 
(i) “Minimum Registration Period” shall mean the minimum period for which a candidate must 
be registered, prior to the date of submission of the Thesis. 

 
(j) “Registration Period” shall mean the length of period commencing with the date of 
registration at the University and ending on the date of submission of the Thesis, counting 
out any gaps. 
(k) “Research Scholar” shall mean a person registered for the Ph.D. degree who has got his 
research plan duly recommended by SFRC and has been and approved by Skill Council and 
has paid the required fee. 
(l) “Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University approved by Skill 
Council on the recommendation of SFRC to guide/supervise the research work of the student. 
(m) “Joint Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University/ industry  
other than the Supervisor, and approved by Skill Council on the recommendation of the SFRC 
to guide/supervise the research work of the Research Scholar 
(n) “RDC” shall mean Research Degree committee 
(o) “ URS” shall mean University Research Scholarship 
3. Jurisdiction/Locale 
 
The degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) shall be granted by the SVSU, Dudhola in all four 
Faculty of University.  Subject to general guidelines issued by the Skill Council and overall control 
of the administration, the research activities for Ph.D. programmes regulated by the various Post-
Graduate Boards of Studies and Research 
(a) A department of a faculty or a centre of university can conduct research programmes for the 
award of  Ph.D degree 
 
(b) The Skill Faculty Research Committee(SFRC)  shall supervise all academic matters related 
to the Ph.D Degree. 
 
The applicants/scholars shall be classified in the following ways: - 
On the basis of the time devotion to the Ph.D. programme 
I. 
Full time 
II. 
Part-time 
 
On the basis of fellowship/scholarship 
I. 
A research scholar getting SVSU fellowship/scholarship 
II. 
A research scholar receiving fellowship/scholarship from outside organizations such 
as CSIR, UGC, QIP, DST, AICTE etc. 
III. 
Non fellowship/scholarship 
Preference will be given to full time candidates. 
4. Composition and Functions of various committees 

 
The two committees namely RAC and SFRC to be constituted as per the constitution  mentioned  
with specific responsibilities 
Definitions 
“SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee for monitoring all the academic matters 
related to PhD program 
“RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the Faculty 
 
4.1 Skill Faculty Research Committee- 
Each Skill Faculty/Department and centre offering Ph.D programme shall have a Skill faculty 
research committee (SFRC). All faculty members of the SFRC must be qualified to be supervisors. 
The dean of the respective faculty will approve the committee 
 
(a) 
Dean of the Faculty/Head of the Department-  Chairperson 
(b) 
One Professor other than Faculty/department (Nominated the Vice Chancellor) 
(c) 
Two Senior members from Industry with recommendation of Vice Chancellor 
(d) 
All  Professors of the Faculty/Department 
(e) 
Two Associate Professors of the Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two 
years 
(f) 
Two Assistant Professors of the Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term of two 
years 
 
Where Skill Faculty/ departments have strength of less than ten teachers all members who are eligible 
to be supervisors, will be members of Skill Faculty Research Committee 
Provided that where no teacher is eligible to be the Head, the Teacher-in-charge if eligible to be 
research(Ph.D)supervisor will convene the meetings of the SFRC as its convener, failing which the 
members of the SFRC will elect one of the members present at the meeting as Chairperson of the 
committee for the said meeting. 
The meetings of the SFRC may be held at least once every 3 months. It may held earlier depending 
on the urgency of individual cases. 
 
 
 

 
Research Advisory committee (RAC) constitution 
 
The Research Advisory committee (RAC) shall consist of the following: 
 
(a) Supervisor of the Scholar- Convener of RAC 
(b) Two  external expert to be nominated by Vice Chancellor 
I. 
One from Industry 
II. 
One from Academics 
5. Eligibility 
 
5.1  A candidate for admission to the course of Ph.D. program shall have Master’s degree or a 
professional degree declared equivalent to the master’s degree by the corresponding statutory 
regulatory body with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade B in the UGC 7 point 
scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale where ever grading system is followed or an equivalent 
degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency 
which is approved/recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law 
in its home country or any other statuary authority in that country for the purpose of assessing, 
accrediting or assuring quality and standards of educational institution. The equivalence of the degree 
will be decided by the PG Board of Studies in the University. 
 
5.2  A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, may be 
allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-able and other categories 
of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time, or for those who had obtained 
their Master's degree prior to 19th September, 1991. The eligibility marks of 55% (or an equivalent 
grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) and the relaxation of 5% to the categories 
mentioned above are permissible based only on the qualifying marks without including the grace 
mark procedures. 
 
5.3 Candidates who have cleared the M.Phil course work with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its 
equivalent grade 'B' in the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever 
grading system is followed) and successfully completing the M.Phil. Degree shall be eligible to 
proceed to do research work leading to the Ph. D. Degree in the same Institution in an integrated 
programme. A relaxation of 5% of marks, from 55% to 50%, or an equivalent relaxation of grade, 
may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/differently-abled and other 
categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 
 

 
5.4 A person whose M.Phil.  dissertation has been evaluated and the viva voce is pending may be 
admitted to the Ph.D. programme of the same Institution. The candidates who appeared in regular 
master’s level examination in the current session may also appear in the entrance test. But they must 
submit the proof of having passed the examination on the pre-designated date before admission to 
the Pre-Ph.D. course. 
 
5.5 Candidates possessing a Degree considered equivalent to M.Phil. Degree of an Indian Institution, 
from a Foreign Educational Institution accredited by an Assessment and Accreditation Agency which 
is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated under a law in its 
home country or any other statutory authority in that country for the purpose of assessing, accrediting 
or assuring quality and standards of educational institutions, shall be eligible for admission to Ph.D. 
programme. 
 
5.6 The state reservation policy shall be followed in Ph.D. Admission. 
5.7 For Skill Faculty of Management : Master's Degree or any other degree recognized equivalent 
thereto in Business Administration or Economics or Commerce or in allied subjects or Two years 
Post Graduate Diploma in Management recognized as equivalent to MBA by AICTE/AIU or 
Graduates having passed their final examination of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
with 55% marks (50% for SC/ST candidates of Haryana) in aggregate or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in 
the UGC 7-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed). 
5.8 For any inter-disciplinary research, Ph.D. degree will be awarded by the Faculty of the concerned 
Department in which the candidate is registered. 
5.9 A candidate provisionally registered for Ph.D. shall be required to attend classes for one semester 
for a Pre-Ph.D. course work. 
5.10The candidates who are awarded fellowship by the university/outside agency to carry out Ph.D. 
work, shall be required to stay at university headquarter for whole duration of the fellowship. The 
Dean of the Faculty concerned will certify the stay of the candidate. 
6. Additional Eligibility Conditions for Part-Time Ph.D. Admission 
 
a) The applicant should be an employee of an educational institute/organization/Industry and must 
produce No Objection Certificate (NOC) from his employer on or before the interview. 
 
b) The candidate proves to the satisfaction of the SFRC that his/her official duties permit him to 
devote sufficient time to research. 
 

 
c) The candidate proves to the satisfaction of the SFRC that facilities for pursuing research are 
available at his place of work in the chosen field of research. 
 
 
d) He will be required to visit university (on working days) to meet his supervisor in the department 
at least twice in a month and such visit is to be reported to the chairman- SFRC for record. 
7. Rules for Full Time Ph.D. 
 
The full time PhD program will have following three categories of scholars admitted to program 
 
(a) A research scholar getting University fellowship / scholarship. 
 
(b) A research scholar receiving fellowship / scholarship from outside organizations such as 
CSIR, UGC, QIP, DST, AICTE etc. 
(c) Self-financed- A scholar who does not receive financial help like scholarship/assistant ship 
from university, or from any other source during his Ph.D. program. 
8. 
Enrolment 
 
8.1 The enrolment to Ph.D. programmes in the teaching departments shall be made once/twice a year 
through the entrance test conducted by the Controller of Examination. The cut-off date for this will 
be decided on year to year basis. The applications in the prescribed form shall be submitted by 
candidates to the Academic section. 
8.2 The number of vacancies in various Faculty will be given on university website and mention of 
the same will be made in the admission notices for information of the candidates. At the time of 
notifying the vacancies in newspapers, the number of vacancies for registration shall be indicated 
course wise. 
8.3  The eligible candidate shall apply for admission in the prescribed form downloadable from the 
university website. 
9. Duration of the Programme: 
 
9.1  Ph.D. programme shall be for a minimum duration of three years, including course work  
and a maximum of six years. 
9.2  The women candidates and Persons with Disability (more than 40% disability) may be 
allowed a relaxation two years for Ph.D. in the maximum duration. In addition, the women 
candidates may be provided Maternity Leave/Child Care Leave once in the entire duration of 

 
Ph.D. for up to 240 days. This period shall not be counted in the total duration for the submission 
of Ph.D Thesis. 
9.3 No candidate shall join any other regular course of study or appear at any examination while 
conducting research. The Vice-Chancellor may, however, allow a candidate to appear in any 
examination or to attend a course which is conducive to his or her research and is of minor nature, 
including improvement of any previous result. 
10. Announcements and Application for Ph.D Programme 
10.1 The University shall notify well in advance, on the  website and through advertisement in at 
least two (2) newspapers, of which at least one (1) shall be in the regional language, the number of 
seats for admission, subject/ discipline-wise distribution of available seats, criteria for admission, 
procedure for admission, examination centre(s)where entrance test(s) shall be conducted and all other 
relevant information, applications for admission to Ph.D. Programmes of its various faculties, for the 
benefit of candidates. 
10.2 A candidate seeking admission to Ph.D. programme can procure the prescribed application from 
the University and send the completed form to the University at the address mentioned in the 
announcement and/or application form. The application form may also be filled on-line if and when 
so announced and/or advised by the University. The candidate must indicate the faculty to which the 
admission is being sought. In case a candidate wishes to apply to more than one field(s) of research 
or faculty, separate choices, preference wise, may be mentioned in application form. 
11. Procedure for Admission 
 
The procedure for admission to Ph.D. programme shall consist of the following steps: - 
I. 
Receipt of applications 
 
II. 
Scrutiny of the applications by the concerned Faculty 
 
III. 
An Entrance Test shall be qualifying with qualifying marks as 50%. The syllabus of the 
Entrance Test shall consist of 50% and 50% shall be subject specific, including skill courses 
designed as per Qualifications Package of NSQF Level 10.  The Entrance test will be of 2 
hours’ duration having 80 questions of one mark each of concerned discipline / branch. 
Entrance Test shall be followed by an interview to be organized by the department concerned. 
 
IV. 
The candidates who have qualified UGC-NET (including JRF)/UGC-CSIR NET (including 
JRF)/SLET/GATE/teacher fellowship holder or have passed M.Phil. programme will be 
exempted from appearing in the entrance test for Ph.D. Programme. However, they will have 
to appear in the interview as per schedule. The candidates who have qualified JRF(valid)/NET 

 
(Valid for two years from the date of issue of certificate) conducted by the 
UGC/CSIR/DBT/ICMR and ASRB. The condition of validity of duration of two years of 
issuance of NET certificate will not be applicable on the regular teachers working in State 
Universities/Central Universities and Govt./Govt. Aided Colleges. Regular teachers of SVSU 
and Foreign students are also exempted from entrance test 
V. 
At the time of interview, doctoral candidates are expected to discuss their research 
interest/area through a presentation before duly constituted SFRC. 
VI. 
Only the predetermined number of students will be admitted to Ph.D.  programme in a Faculty 
with provisional registration. 
VII. 
As per UGC Notification on Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil./Ph.D. 
Degrees (2nd Amendment) Regulations 2018 dated 16th October 2018, the following should 
be ensured in the selection process of M.Phil./PhD. for those candidates who qualify in the 
entrance examination: For the selection of candidates who qualify in the entrance 
examination, a weightage of 70% to the entrance test and 30% to the performance in the 
interview/viva-voce shall be given. The provisional admission of candidates shall be made, 
based on written test (70 marks), followed by interview and presentation (30 marks). The date 
of written test will be announced through the website of the University. The syllabus of the 
Entrance Test shall consist of 50% of research methodology and quantitative techniques and 
50% shall be subject specific. The Entrance Test shall be qualifying with 50% marks. The 
entrance test shall be conducted by the examination branch. 
VIII. 
If number of candidates who qualified the entrance test for admission to Ph.D. programme 
are less than the seats advertised against respective category of reservation in a 
Department/School, the condition of qualifying of entrance test by the candidates may be 
relaxed from 50% to 45% (from 45% to 40% for SC/ST candidates of Haryana) by the Vice-
chancellor on the recommendation of respective Chairperson/Director before start of  
admission of the qualified candidates. In such cases, the Chairperson concerned will notify 
the change to the candidates well in time before the start of admission. 
 
IX. 
Vacant seats for Ph.D. admission due to non-availability of candidates having 50% marks 
(45% in case of SC/ST candidates of Haryana) in entrance test may be filled up by the 
Chairperson within week of first/normal counseling for admission as per category merit of 
the remaining candidates who qualify after relaxation as given in clause (viii) above, if 
allowed by the Vice-chancellor. 
 

 
X. 
In case the number of applicants who qualify the Entrance Test are more than the number of 
seats available, then the merit list for admission to Ph.D. Programme shall be prepared by 
Department/ School according to the following criteria: 
 
a) 30% weightage of marks in the Master’s Degree Examination. 
b) 20% weightage of marks in the Bachelor’s Degree Examination. 
c) 50% weightage of marks in the Entrance Test. 
 
XI. 
The interview/viva voce shall also consider the following aspects, viz. whether: 
 
a. 
the candidate possesses the competence for the proposed research; 
 
b. 
the research work can be suitably undertaken at the Industry/ Institution/College; the 
proposed area of research can contribute to new/additional knowledge 
 
XII. 
The candidates recommended by the SFRC and approved by Vice Chancellor, shall be 
admitted to the Ph.D programme of the University. They shall be required to submit the 
necessary documents for scrutiny and preparation of Registration Return. Upon due 
processing, the candidates will receive the University enrolment number. 
XIII. 
The result of Entrance Test will be considered for admission to Ph.D. only during the session 
in which the test was held and the same will not be considered in the subsequent year(s), that 
is, if a candidate wants to be considered for admission next year, he/she will have to appear 
for the entrance test afresh. 
 
12. Fee Deposit 
A Research Scholar shall be required to pay the fees in the manner prescribed by the University. 
13. Registration 
13.1 After the approval of the Research Plan by the SFRC and payment of fees prescribed by the 
University, a candidate shall be formally registered as a Research Scholar with effect from date on 
which the Skill Council accorded its approval and the candidate was allotted enrollment number. A 
Research Scholar shall be required to renew his registration every semester/ year and pay the fees in 
the manner prescribed by the University. 
13.2 After the approval of the skill Council, the provisional admission of the research scholar will be 
confirmed and he/she will be finally registered for the Ph.D. program. Consequently, the provisional 
enrolment number allotted to the research scholar shall become his/her Registration Number. 

 
13.3 In case of research scholars with UGC JRF, the date of joining/provisional admission in the 
department for Ph.D. programme shall be considered as date of registration to upload their master 
data on UGC portal for the purpose of grant of fellowship. 
14. University Research Scholarship (URS) 
 
14.1 Each Faculty will have two scholarships every year. The amount of this scholarship shall be 
Rs.15,000/- per month. It will be tenable for two years in the first instance. This scholarship may be 
extended only for a period not exceeding one year i.e. 3rd year by the Vice- Chancellor on the 
recommendations of the Committee consisting of the Dean, Chairperson of the Department and the 
Supervisor of the scholar. Each scholar receiving this scholarship shall also receive a contingency 
grant of Rs. 5000/- per annum. This scholarship will be awarded on the basis of the merit of the 
qualifying examinations. In addition to the above, three University Research Scholarships or 20% of 
the allocated URS whichever is higher will be awarded to SC/ST candidate. 
 
14.2 This scholarship shall be awarded on the recommendations of the Selection Committee 
consisting of the Dean of the Faculty and two members of the Faculty nominated by the Vice-
Chancellor. 
 
14.3This scholarship will be awarded from the date of joining in the Faculty before registration 
including pre-registration period. However, the amount will be payable after his/her registration in 
the department. Failure to get registered will disqualify the candidate for this scholarship. 
 
14.4The scholar will be required to do whole-time research work under approved guidance of his/her 
supervisor and shall not be allowed to take financial benefit (funds/fellowships) from any other 
source during this tenure. 
14.5 The scholar will be required to submit a certificate of progress and satisfactory work, duly 
countersigned by his/ her Supervisor and recommended by the concerned Dean to the Registrar every 
six months. The continuance of the fellowship would be subject to satisfactory progress of work of 
the Scholars. 
14.6 The scholar shall complete the full period of research work. In the event of a scholar 
discontinuing or giving up his work before the expiry of two years, or before the expiry of the 
extended period, if extension was allowed, for no valid reason he shall be required to refund to the 
University the entire amount received by him. 
14.7 Provided that in very exceptional cases this condition may be waived by the Vice-Chancellor 
in consultation with the Dean Academics, the Dean of the Department concerned and the 

 
Supervisor. The scholar shall, execute a Bond with the University in the form prescribed for the 
purpose giving surety of any of the following: - 
(i) A permanent employee of this University. 
 
(ii) A person possessing property in the jurisdiction of Faridabad Court (mentioning the 
details of property). 
 
(iii)A permanent employee of the Government. 
 
14.8 Provided that the Vice-Chancellor may, on the recommendation of the Dean of the Faculty grant 
a person who was awarded a University Research Scholarship, leave not exceeding six months and 
allow him to resume the scholarship on the expiry of this leave to complete the remaining tenure of 
the scholarship. 
14.9 Provided further that the Vice-Chancellor may, in very hard and exceptional cases, allow 
extension in leave for a period not exceeding three months to a Research Scholar to prosecute 
academic pursuits only. 
14.10 Reports on the satisfactory progress on the work of the scholar shall be submitted to the skill 
council Dean of Faculty concerned once every six months. The continuance of the Scholarship would 
depend on the satisfactory progress of work of the Scholars. 
a. Financial assistance shall not be provided where the research scholar is availing paid study 
leave 
b. Foreign students must show a proof of financial support for the duration of the Ph.D. 
enrolment 
15. Leaves 
15.1 Leave for a maximum of 15 days in a year in addition to general holidays may be allowed to a 
Research Scholar by the Dean of the Faculty on the recommendation of the Supervisor. The scholar 
will not be entitled to any vacations. No other leave of any kind with scholarship will be admissible 
to a Research Scholar. This period shall be counted in the total duration for submission of thesis. 
15.2 On the recommendation of the supervisor and the SFRC, University may permit the research 
scholar to be away from the SVSU to pursue research work related to Ph.D work  for not more than 
two semesters after completion of the coursework. 
15.3 The supervisor must report absence from research work due to any reason to the SFRC. 
Negligence of research work or any other acts of indiscipline must be recorded and reported to the 
concerned SFRC. On receipt of complaint the SFRC may take appropriate action against the research 
scholar including cancellation of the registration. 

 
16. De-registration 
Only in exceptional cases the scholar may be allowed to de-register from the PhD program after 
successful completion of minimum duration of three years on the recommendation of the SFRC. The 
research scholar shall be allowed to re register with in a period of three years. The PhD thesis should 
be submitted within such a period that the period of initial registration and re-registration does not 
exceed the duration of the Ph.D programme. 
17. Contingency Grant 
 
17.1 The contingency grant of Rs. 5000/- per student, per annum may be utilized on apparatus, 
chemicals, books and journals, Photostat copies, macro films, typing, stationery, postage and field 
work/ travel needed in connection with the approved research projects with the approval of the Dean 
of the Faculty on the recommendations of the Supervisor. 
17.2 The contingency grant is not intended for making payment of examination and other fees. 
17.3 The non-consumable articles purchased out of the contingency grant will be first entered in the 
accession/ stock register of the Library/ Store of the concerned department and then the articles will 
be issued to the research scholar (s) so as to ensure that on expiry/ termination/ relinquishment of 
scholarship, these are returned to the Department 
17.4 For all expenditure out of the contingency grant, a certificate from the supervisor duly 
countersigned by the Dean of the Faculty concerned to the effect that the expenditure incurred is in 
furtherance of the approved research work will be necessary. 
17.5 Travelling allowances for approved field work/ travel in connection with the research work will 
be admissible according to the rules of the university. 
17.6 The unspent balance, if any, out of the contingency grant of the previous year will not be carried 
forward to the next year at any cost. 
17.7 The grant will be released in the instalments in a year i.e. at the rate of Rs. 1500/- half yearly on 
submission of the bills duly recommended and certified by the Supervisor and the Dean of the Faculty 
concerned. The bills of each instalment will be accepted in the same period for which the grant has 
been allocated. 
17.8 A full time PhD program may be converted to a part time program at the completion of two 
years if he/she satisfies the following conditions. No scholarship will be provided on part time 
conversion. 
(i) The request from the Research Scholar in this regard is made to Dean (Academics) through 
proper channel and he/she has already passed the prescribed course work. 

 
 
(ii) His/her progress reports by his/her supervisor(s) for the previous two years are found 
satisfactory. 
(iii)In case, he/she has been offered a regular job in some organization, then he/she may obtain a 
'no objection certificate' from his/her employer to continue his/her research work as a part-
time Research Scholar at SVSU, UST and enclose along with his/her request for the purpose. 
 
(iv) The Research Scholar may be allowed to register as part-time candidate only after the 
recommendation of the SFRC and approval of Dean, Supervisor. 
 
(v) The full-time Research Scholar after conversion to part-time Research Scholar shall not be 
considered for any scholarship/stipend/contingency/grant teaching assistantship as meant for 
full-time Research Scholar 
(vi) All rules and regulations-of part-time programme shall be applicable for such Research 
Scholar Further, once changed to part time candidature; the concerned Research Scholar 
cannot revert back. 
 
18. Part time Ph.D. for sponsored candidates 
 
A part time Ph.D. program will be for candidates with minimum 15 years of experience in reputed 
industry / organization having R & D facilities, Govt. R&D Departments / National Research 
Laboratories / Units of Government / Quasi Government / Public sector etc. Separate guidelines for 
admission will be issued for these seats whenever these are published/advertised. 
 
19. Course Work, Research Plan and Short Synopsis 
 
19.1 Course Work and Credits 
After having admitted, each provisionally registered Ph.D. student shall be   required to pass  pre-
Ph.D. course work of one semester (minimum attendance required is of 75%). The course work shall 
include a compulsory course on: 
(i) The course work shall be a prerequisite for Ph.D. preparation. 
(ii) All courses prescribed for Ph.D. course work shall be in conformity with the credit hour 
instructional requirement and shall specify content, instructional and assessment methods. 
They shall be duly approved by Skill Council. 
(iii)The Department where the scholar pursues his/her research shall prescribe the course(s) to 
him/her based on the recommendations of the Research Advisory Committee (RAC), as 
stipulated for the research scholar. 

 
(iv) All candidates admitted to the Ph.D programme shall be required to complete the course work 
prescribed by the Department during the initial one or two semesters (6 months or 1 year) after 
joining the university. 
(v) Each course is assigned a total number of credits, which is based on the scientific content and 
the number of hours of lecture per week. 
The course work shall comprise of: 
(i) Research Methodology (3 Credits) 
(ii) Quantitative Methods and Computer Applications / Quantitative Techniques (3 Credits) 
(iii)One or more Elective Subject(s) related to the area of research (3 Credits) 
(iv) Research and Publication Ethics (RPE) (2 Credits) 
(v) Literature Survey (1 Credit). 
(vi) Seminars for Short Synopsis (1 Credit) 
(vii) Seminar for Pre-Ph.D Submission (1 Credit) 
 
19.2 The course work will also include reviewing of published research in the relevant field. The 
Departments should submit the report in their SFRC in this regard. 
19.3 For admission to Pre-Ph.D. course work the candidate will be required to deposit fee as 
prescribed by the university. 
19.4 Candidates already holding M. Phil. degree and admitted to the Ph.D. programme, or those who 
have already completed the course work in M.Phil. and have been permitted to proceed to the Ph.D. 
in integrated course, may be exempted by the Faculty from the Ph.D. course work. All other 
candidates admitted to the Ph.D. programme shall be required to complete the Ph.D. course work 
prescribed by the Department. 
19.5 A Ph.D. scholar has to obtain a minimum of 55% of marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 
7-point scale (or an equivalent grade/CGPA in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) in 
the course work in order to be eligible to continue in the programme and submit the thesis. 
19.6  Regular classes for Research Methodology and Quantitative Techniques shall be held as per 
schedule notified by the Dean of the Faculty concerned. However, the third Subject pertaining to the 
area of research shall be taken by the Supervisor / Joint Supervisor during this period. 
20.Cancellation Rules 
 
If the candidate is not able to submit the fees, the accounts section should send his/her name to the 
respective department and department will issue a letter to the candidate. If the candidate does not 

 
submit fees after two consecutive semesters his/her name may be stuck off from the rolls of 
University after the recommendation of SFRC chairperson and supervisor. 
 
(i) If the candidate fails to submit his/her progress report after every semester, after two 
consecutive such semesters, SFRC may recommend the cancellation of admission. 
 
(ii) In case two consecutive six monthly reports are unsatisfactory, SFRC may recommend for 
cancellation of the registration. 
 
(iii)If the supervisor feels that the candidate lacks interest and motivation for research after 
completion of course work, he can recommend his/her case to the SFRC and SFRC can 
recommend for cancellation of admission. 
 
(iv) Finally, the Skill Council, on the recommendation of the SFRC, may cancel the registration 
of a research scholar. 
 
(v) The Vice-Chancellor may cancel the registration of a candidate at any time, after the issue of 
a due show-cause notice, on disciplinary or any other grounds, which are considered to be not 
in consonance with the dignity and behaviour of a research scholar or non-payment of hostel 
or any other dues. 
21. Allocation of Supervisor/Joint-Supervisor 
 
21.1 Any regular Professor of the University with at least five research publications in refereed 
journals and any regular Associate/Assistant Professor with a Ph.D. degree and at least two research 
publications in refereed journal may be recognized as supervisor. Provided that in areas/discipline 
where there is no or only a limited number of refereed journal, the SFRC may relax the condition of 
publication with reasons recorded in writing. 
21.2Only a fulltime regular teacher of the concerned university can act as a supervisor. The external 
supervisors are not allowed. However joint supervisor can be allowed in inter disciplinary areas from 
other departments of the same institute or from other related institutions with the approval of the 
RAC. 
21.3 Research Supervisor/Joint-supervisor who is a Professor, at any given point of time, cannot 
guide more than Eight (8) Ph.D. scholars. An Associate Professor as Research Supervisor can guide 
up to a maximum of six (6) Ph.D. scholars and an Assistant Professor as Research Supervisor can 
guide up to a maximum of four (4) Ph.D. Teachers working in SVSU and approved faculty in 
recognized colleges affiliated to this university with Ph.D. degree and three year post Ph.D. 
experience with proven research record in the form of 05 research publications shall be permitted to 

 
act as supervisor on the recommendation of skill council. The Vice-Chancellor may permit these 
limits to exceed marginally on special ground to be recorded. No fresh registration will be allowed 
by Skill Council to teachers who proceeded on extra ordinary leaves. 
 
21.4The allocation of research supervisor for a selected research scholar shall be decided by the 
department concerned depending upon the number of scholars per supervisor, the available 
specialization among the supervisors and research interest of the scholars as indicated by them at the 
time of interview/Viva voce. 
 
21.5 In special circumstances viz. in the case of subjects of interdisciplinary/ inter speciality nature, 
the SFRC may recommend a joint-supervisor who can be from within the University or from other 
universities/ Industry as well, for reasons to be recorded. The qualifications for a joint supervisor will 
be the same as prescribed for the single supervisor except in the case of an eminent scholar. The 
teacher to act as joint-Supervisor is required to submit his consent on the prescribed proforma 
(Annexure: E) available on the University Website to the Chairperson of the concerned Department 
at the time of submission of synopsis by the research scholar for consideration of SFRC. 
 
21.6Scientist/Researchers/Faculty/ Experts from industries working on regular basis in various 
IIT/NIT/Research Laboratories/Industrial Establishments (which are associated with SVSU) /Central 
University/ state Govt. University/govt. aided institutions/Directorate of technical Education (DTE) 
however, be permitted to act as Joint supervisor. The prior consent of the joint-supervisor shall be 
obtained before registration. 
 
21.7 The faculty member to be appointed as supervisor or co-supervisor shall not be a spouse/blood 
relation of the research scholar to be registered for Ph.D. course. 
21.8 In case of relocation of Ph.D. women scholar due to marriage or otherwise, the research data 
shall be allowed to be transferred to the university to which the scholar intends to relocate provided 
all other conditions in these regulations are followed in letter and spirit and the research work does 
not pertain to the project secured by the parent institution/supervisor from the funding agency. The 
scholar will however give the credit to the parent guide and the institution for the part of research 
already done. 
21.9 The teacher(s) on extra ordinary leaves may continue to guide the candidates registered for Ph.D. 
programme under his/her supervision in the university. If the supervisor(s) of a candidate leave(s) 
the university before the completion of the research work or is/are otherwise unable to see the work 
through, due to some valid reasons, the Vice-Chancellor may allow change of the supervisor, as 

 
chosen by the candidate, on the recommendation of the RAC and SFRC, if it is considered that the 
change of supervisor is in the interest of the completion of the work. 
21.10 Addition/ deletion/ change of Research Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor would be considered by 
SKILL COUNCIL on recommendation of Research Advisory Committee(RAC) and SFRC under 
following circumstances/ reasons, on request obtained from the Research Scholar and / or 
Supervisor(s): 
   
a) Death of Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor. 
   
b) Resignation of the Supervisor / Joint Supervisor from the University. 
   
c) Attainment of age of seventy years by Supervisor/ Joint Supervisor. 
   
d) Any other specific reason to the satisfaction of Skill Council. 
 
22. Evaluation and Assessment Methods 
 
22.1 Research Scholar shall submit progress report along with the presentation in every six months 
before RAC. This Committee shall have the following responsibilities: 
 
I. 
To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research 
 
II. 
To guide the research scholar to develop the study design and methodology of research 
 
III. 
To periodically review and assist in the progress of the research work of the research 
scholar. 
 
22.2 The six monthly progress reports shall be submitted by the Research Advisory Committee to 
office of  Dean of the faculty with a copy to the research scholar twice in a year.  If the work of a 
research scholar is found unsatisfactory at any stage as reported by the supervisor(s), the Research 
Advisory Committee (RAC) shall give him or her an opportunity to explain his/her position and make 
suitable recommendation including de-registration. 
22.3 The evaluation of Pre-Ph.D. examination will be done internally. The result will be declared 
within one month of Pre-Ph.D. examination. Reappear examination for Pre. Ph.D. course shall be 
conducted along with the other semester exams. The candidates attaining less than the minimum 
qualifying CGPA will have to qualify with minimum CGPA requirement for confirmation of 
registration within two years. 

 
 
22.4 A student admitted to the Ph.D. Programme shall be required to clear the course work within 
the first two consecutive semesters. The name of a student admitted to pre-Ph.D./Ph.D. programme 
may be removed from the roll of the University after two semesters at the recommendation of the 
concerned SFRC chairperson. 
22.5 The presentation of Synopsis by the candidate will be before SFRC of the Faculty as per the 
schedule decided by the department concerned. In the synopsis student should mention the broad 
area of research and tentative topic of the research. The final topic of the research will be submitted 
by the student before six months of submission. The SFRC will consider and approve the synopsis 
of all candidates and shall confirm the registration by the date of approval by Skill Council. 
22.6 The SFRC will adopt the following procedure: 
While considering the applications for registration, the SFRC will consider the synopsis submitted 
by the candidates and shall clearly state whether in its opinion: 
i) The subject proposed for research is suitable or not. 
ii) The supervisor(s) is/are eligible or not. 
The SFRC may either reject the synopsis or may suggest suitable changes in the synopsis for reasons 
to be recorded. The candidate is required to resubmit the revised synopsis after having incorporated 
the suggested changes within a period of time specified by the SFRC 
22.7 Modification in Topic of Research: A candidate may, normally not later than one year after his 
registration, modify the topic of his/her subject on the recommendations of the SFRC. However, 
minor modifications may be allowed later on, on the recommendations of the SFRC and with the 
approval of the Vice Chancellor. 
 
23. Plagiarism Policy 
The University shall evolve a mechanism using well developed software and gadgets to detect 
plagiarism and other forms of academic unethical practices. Each thesis will go through the 
plagiarism check that will be verified by the University library before submission. The certificate of 
verification given by the library has to be submitted along with the thesis at the time of thesis 
submission in the examination branch. The thesis has to be submitted within 30 days from the date 
of plagiarism check 
The thesis must be a piece of original research work characterized either by the discovery of  new 
facts or by a fresh interpretation of facts or theories. In either case it should show the research scholars 

 
capacity for critical examination and judgment. It must be satisfactory as far as its language and 
presentation are concerned. 
Similarity checks for exclusion from Plagiarism 
(a) All quoted work reproduced with all necessary permission and/or attribution 
(b) All references , bibliography table of content, preface and acknowledgements 
(c) All generic terms laws standard symbols and standard equations 
(d) Note: The research work carried out by the researcher shall be based on original ideas which shall 
include abstract, summary, hypothesis, observations, results, conclusions and recommendations 
only and shall not have any similarities. It shall exclude a common knowledge or coincidental 
terms up to Fourteen(14) consecutive words 
 
24. Pre-submission of Thesis 
 
24.1 A Pre-Ph. D submission is an essential requirement to assess the contents of the Thesis before 
the committee. On completion of the research work and complying with the submission requirements, 
the candidate shall submit to Supervisor(s), a copy of the extended synopsis (Annexure A) of his 
research work. 
24.2 If supervisor(s) is / are satisfied that the research work has been completed as per pre-defined 
objectives and the research scholar meets the eligibility criteria for Pre-Ph.D. submission including 
published work (two research papers in reputed journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars 
during the period of registration in the form of acceptance letter or the reprint), he/she/they shall 
forward the same with the certificate (Annexure B) through the supervisor to the dean of the faculty 
concerned. 
24.3  One research paper in any SCI, Scopus, Web of sciences journals and one research paper in a 
reputed journal in the form of acceptance letter or reprint. 
24.4 The type of publication/ presentation shall be in the field/ sphere of topic of Ph.D. Only those 
research publications, in the Journal / Proceedings of the Conferences, would be considered for 
scoring system where the name of the Research Scholar is written as an author along with that of 
Supervisor(s). Only full published papers will be considered for scoring however in case of 
presentation the scholar shall submit the presentation certificate with SVSU affiliation along with 
supervisor. The Research Scholar must mention the affiliation to the Shri Vishwakarma Skill 
University in the research publication. For example, the specification of the Research Scholar as an 
author in the Research Publication may be as under: 

 
i. (Name of the Research Scholar), Research Scholar Shri Vishwakarma Skill University,  
Dudhola, Haryana 
ii. (Designation, Name of the Employer of the Research Scholar) (If applicable) 
iii. Name and Designation of Supervisor(s) and affiliation 
 
24.5 The extended synopsis and other concerned papers of the research scholar shall then be 
forwarded to Dean of the faculty for verification as per checklist (Annexure C). The file would then 
be routed back within three working days. Dean of faculty concerned would formulate a 3-5 member 
committee of the concerned department comprising of at least 2 Professors, 1 Associate Professor 
and 1 Assistant Professor possessing Ph.D. degree for conduct of Pre- PhD presentation. 
24.6 Ph.D. presentation, the date and time for the same would be fixed in consultation with supervisor 
(except on holidays and vacations). Pre-Ph.D. presentation of the research scholar shall be in the 
presence of faculty members, research scholars and PG students.  One external member/ expert may 
be nominated for the same in case number of cadre is not available in the department. 
The 
committee would 
 submit report of the pre Ph.D. presentation as per format (Annexure D) to 
the concerned chairperson along with extended synopsis and submit its recommendations to the dean 
of faculty as under: 
24.7 If the committee is fully satisfied with the research work completed by the research scholar, 
through SFRC it will recommend to allow the research scholar to write his / her thesis and submit 
the final draft within 6 months from the date of clearance by SFRC. The thesis can be submitted 
only after two months from the date of recommendation by SFRC. If a candidate fails to submit the 
thesis in stipulated period, then extension in submission period can be provided by the Vice-
Chancellor on the recommendation of SFRC. If the research scholar even then fails to submit his / 
her thesis within a stipulated period of 8 months, he / she will have to submit the thesis after making 
Pre-Ph.D. submission presentation again. 
24.8 If committee is not satisfied with the research work done by the research scholar, it will advise 
the research scholar to make the specific changes / undertake additional research work and resubmit 
the extended synopsis. 
24.9 Notice for Pre-Ph.D. submission presentation must be issued by the office of Dean of the faculty 
for date in consultation with the concerned chairperson and supervisor, at least 7 working days in 
advance. 
24.10 The final report of the committee and all other papers will be submitted to Dean of Faculty 
for records. 
 

 
25. Submission of Thesis 
 
25.1 When a research scholar is ready to submit his or her thesis for evaluation, he or she shall obtain 
a certificate from his or her supervisor to this effect and shall apply to the Dean of Faculty. 
25.2 A candidate shall submit his/her thesis in English/Hindi medium. 
25.3 The Ph.D. candidate shall submit Four hard bound (format given in Annexure A-1) and soft 
copy (preferably in PDF) stored on CD to the concerned department.  Three hard bound copies shall 
be submitted after the final viva. 
25.4The candidate should also submit to the Dean six copies of the summary of the thesis each 
indicating how far the thesis embodies the results of his or her own research or observation and in 
what respect his or her investigations appear to him or her to advance the study of the subject of his 
or her thesis. The candidate may submit the copies of the summary within 15 days of the meeting of 
SFRC in which Pre submission seminar presentation was given, so that COE may get the examiners 
appointed in anticipation of the submission of the thesis. The summary may be sent to the examiners 
while seeking their consents for evaluation of the thesis. 
 
25.5The SFRC shall approve a panel of 10 specialists (examiners) of Professors rank either working 
or retired from Govt. / Govt. aided Institute / Govt. Universities / IITs / NITs/ Central R & D 
Organization / Govt. Departments/ Industry in the relevant field, out of which 5 specialists 
(examiners) will be from local states (Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and NCR Delhi) and 5 from outside 
states and country. However, the examiner shall not be from University / Institute of the Supervisor 
/ Candidate and will not be related to them. Member of SFRC shall be avoided as an examiner / 
evaluator of the thesis. The SFRC is free to include or change the names of the examiners.” 
25.6 The Dean of the Faculty shall send this examiner’s list (sealed envelope), duly signed by the 
members of the SFRC, along with the copies of the thesis and summary to the office of controller of 
examination after verifying the check list (see Annexure 2), 
25.7 The COE shall forward this examiner’s list to the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor shall 
appoint finally three examiners, out of which at least one should be outside the state and one should 
be outside the country. The Vice-Chancellor is authorized to appoint examiners from outside the 
panel forwarded by the SFRC. The examination branch shall seek the consent of the examiners, if 
any of the examiner(s) show his/her inability to evaluate the thesis then the consent may be obtained 
from other examiner(s) approved by the Vice-chancellor. If the reply regarding the consent is not 

 
received within a month then the examination branch can communicate with the other examiner after 
the approval of the Vice-Chancellor. 
25.8If any examiner does not reply even after three months, two reminders should be given to him at 
the gap of one month by COE and after that the thesis may be sent to the next examiner after the 
approval of Vice Chancellor. The entire process of evaluation of Ph.D. thesis should be completed 
within a period of six months from the date of submission of the dissertation/thesis. The evaluator 
will state categorically whether in his or her opinion: 
 
a. Thesis should be accepted for the award of Ph.D. Degree 
 
OR 
 
b. It should be referred to candidate for presenting it again in revised form; 
OR 
c. It should be rejected. 
 
25.9The evaluator shall state reasons for approval or rejection of the thesis. If he or she recommends 
re-submission /rejection, he or she shall specifically indicate what modifications he or she wants the 
candidate to effect and incorporate in the thesis. If all the examiners recommend the award of degree, 
they may also give in their report a set of questions which they would like to put to the candidate at 
the time of viva-voce. In case two of the examiners rejects the thesis the Vice Chancellor will send 
the thesis for evaluation to the another examiner. If only one of the examiners recommends re-
submission with modification, in that case the candidate shall be asked to modify the thesis and 
submit the same after having carried out all the modifications within a year with a certificate from 
the supervisor(s) that all the modifications have been carried out as suggested by the examiner. 
 
25.10As per the UGC regulations 2016, the public viva voce of the research scholar to defend the 
thesis shall be conducted only if the evaluation reports of the external examiners on the thesis are 
satisfactory and include a specific recommendation for conducting the viva- voce examination. If 
one of the evaluation report of the external examiner is unsatisfactory and does not recommend viva 
voce the university shall send the thesis to another external examiner out of the approved panel of 
examiner and viva voce shall be held if the report of the latest examiner is satisfactory. If the report 
of the latest examiner is also unsatisfactory the thesis shall be rejected and the scholar shall be 
declared ineligible for the award of the degree 
25.11For the PhD thesis evaluation the corresponding actions suggested in the following table may 
be followed based on the comment/observations received from the external examiners 

 
 
Scenario
Examiner 1
Examiner 2
Examiner 
3 
Suggested action 
Event1 
Accept 
Accept 
Accept 
Viva Voce 
Event2 
Accept 
Accept 
Minor 
correction 
Revise 
thesis 
in 
consultation 
with 
supervisor followed by 
viva voce 
Event3 
Accept 
Accept 
Reject 
Thesis to be sent to fourth 
examiner whose decision 
will be final and binding 
Event4 
Accept/Resub
mission 
Reject 
Reject 
Cancellation 
of 
Registration 
 
 
25.12A re-submitted thesis shall be examined by the examiner(s) who evaluated the original thesis 
unless any of them is unable or unwilling to do so in which case substitute(s) shall be appointed from 
the panel by the Vice-Chancellor. The examiner(s) for the revised thesis will only see whether the 
objections raised have been met or not. 
25.13A candidate whose thesis is rejected shall not be registered again for the Ph.D degree with the 
same topic. 
25.14 The examiner for a thesis shall indicate in their report whether the thesis is fit for publication 
in its original or modified form. In the latter case, he shall make definite suggestions for 
improvement. 
25.15 If all examiners recommend award of the degree, the candidate shall be examined through 
viva-voce examination by one of the examiners, to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. If all the 
examiners are unable or unwilling to conduct the viva-voce examination another person will be 
approved for the purpose by the Vice-Chancellor from the panel already approved by PG Board of 
Studies. 
25.16 The viva-voce examination shall be conducted by the external examiner and will be held in the 
Faculty concerned at SVSU University unless otherwise approved by the Vice-Chancellor. All the 
teachers including supervisor/ co-supervisor and research scholars will be invited to attend the viva-
voce examination. The viva-voce examination will be based on the questions given by all the 
examiners. The candidate will openly defend the thesis in viva-voce examination. The viva-voce 
examination of the candidate should be on any working day and Saturday in consultation with the 
examiner and supervisor. Notice for Ph.D. viva must be issued at least 7 working days in advance. 

 
25.17After the viva-voce examination, the reports of all the examiners shall be placed before the 
research degree committee consisting of the Vice-Chancellor, the Dean of the Faculty concerned, 
chairperson of the university teaching department and one of the supervisor/co-supervisor. It shall be 
the function of the committee to consider the reports and to recommend to the Skill Council, whether; 
a. The degree be awarded 
OR 
b. The thesis be revised and resubmitted for re-examination; 
 
OR 
c. The thesis be rejected 
 
25.19Further, provisional degree shall be issued from the date of meeting of research degree 
committee (RDC) to such students in whose cases the research degree committee has recommended 
for award of Ph.D. Degree. Along with the degree, the university shall issue a provisional certificate 
certifying to the effect that the degree has been awarded in accordance with the provisions to the 
UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedures for the award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulation, 2016. 
25.20 Controller of Examination, Dean Academics & Dean of the faculty may also be added in 
Research Degree Committee (RDC) and COE will act as Member Secretary of this Committee. The 
Vice Chancellor shall be the chairperson of RDC. Further, COE will issue notification of the 
candidates whose Ph. D. degree is recommended by RDC within 7 working days of RDC meeting to 
all concerned. 
25.21After finalization of the award of Ph.D. Degree, one copy will be sent to the University Library 
and the other to the Departmental Library. The third copy may be returned to be candidate. Further, 
the university shall submit a soft copy of the Ph.D thesis to the UGC within a period of thirty days, 
for hosting the same in INFLIBNET, accessible to all institutions/universities. 
25.22No thesis shall be published without the prior permission of the university. The research scholar 
may apply to the chairperson of the department/Dean of Skill Faculty for permission to publish his 
or her thesis. The chairperson will place the request before the SFRC which shall satisfy itself that 
the thesis is in publishable form. It will be guided by the reports of the examiners. A certificate will 
be obtained from the supervisor to the effect that the necessary improvements suggested by him or 
her and the examiners have been duly carried out. All the published thesis will be put on university 
website and will include catalogue and abstract of the thesis. 
25.23 The Skill Council, on the recommendation of the Vice-Chancellor, shall have the right to 
withdraw the degree if plagiarism or duplication or any other form of malpractice is detected at any 
stage and to initiate such further action as it deems fit. Provided that the Vice-Chancellor shall get 

 
the complaint in the matter investigated confidentially and shall give the accused an opportunity to 
explain before he makes his recommendation on the matter to the Skill Council. There shall be no 
limitation of time for this action of the Skill Council. 
 
26. Fee Structure: 
 
Fees to be paid by Pre-Ph.D. or Ph.D. candidate during the Ph.D. programme will be as laid down 
by the University from time to time. 
Fee payable at the time of admission in Pre Ph.D. Programme: 
(i) Fee for Pre Ph.D. Course: Rs 10000/- 
(ii) Registration fee: Rs 3000/- one time. 
(iii)Tuition fee: 10000/- per semester. 
(iv) Tuition fee (for University Employees): 5000/- per semester. 
(v) Caution Money (Refundable): 5000/- one time. 
 
Full fee is required to pay for that half year in which thesis is submitted by the scholar. During the 
registration period, the Ph.D. Scholars are required to deposit their semester & other fees on or before 
30th September and March. Otherwise late fee for delayed payment will be as under: 
(i) up to 90 days: 1000/- 
(ii) from 91 days to semester end: 2000/- 
(iii)For more than one semester: 5000/ per semester 
 
Full fee is required to pay for the semester up to pre-submission. 
Caution money / fee deposited for Ph.D. programme by the scholars will be refunded by the Accounts 
Branch of the university as per procedure of UG/PG courses on the recommendations of Chairperson 
/ Director of the department / school/Dean of Faculty concerned. 
 
27. Remuneration 
Remuneration payable to each examiner will be 3000/- for evaluation of thesis and 5000/- for viva-
voce. Remuneration for expert in pre-submission will be Rs. 2,000/- 
 
 
 
Annexure – A 

 
 
Guidelines for Submission of Extended Synopsis 
 
The Extended Synopsis should broadly indicate the work done, objectives proposed and achieved, 
methodology adopted and outcomes in chapter wise description. In general, the following should 
be the sequence of Extended Synopsis: - 
 
1. Cover Page 
 
2. Certificate by Supervisor 
 
3. Content Page 
 
4. Summary/Introduction 
 
5. Research Objectives 
 
6. Organization of proposed thesis (chapter wise) 
 
7. Contribution 
 
8. Scope for further work 
 
The Extended Synopsis should typically be 15 to 20 pages (excluding title pages). It should be 
neatly typed on both sides in Times New Roman Font of size 12 with 1.5 spacing. 
 
The general guidelines are as follows: 
 
1. Synopsis must be unambiguous. Title of the Synopsis must be as approved by RAC/SFRC. 
 
2. The objectives and methodology of the research should be started in bullet form/itemized. 
 
3. The entire text should be grammatical correct and must be at a reasonable language level. 
 
4. The Synopsis must clearly mention the expected outcomes of the research. 
 
5. Synopsis must be accompanied with a Certificate duly signed by Supervisor and 
countersigned by Chairperson concerned testifying therein that the entire text of the Synopsis 
has been read thoroughly and it is as per the guidelines. 
 
 
 

 
 
Annexure – B 
 
Certificate from research supervisor(s) stating that 
 
(i) 
Two research papers in reputed journals from which one research paper is in any SCI, 
Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in the conferences/seminars 
during the period of registration in the form of acceptance letter or the reprint). 
 
(ii) 
There is prima facie case for the submission of the thesis/Extended Synopsis and the 
thesis does not contain any work, which has been previously submitted for the award 
of any degree anywhere. 
 
(iii) 
Undertaking from the candidate as well as research Supervisor(s) shall mention that: 
“The thesis is based on the individual, original work of the candidate, which is 
previously unpublished research work”. 
 
(iv) 
It shall be ensured by the research supervisor(s) that: the thesis shall not contain any 
material that infringes the copyright of any other individual or organization and does 
not hurt the sentiments of any individual(s) or religion(s). The information such as 
text, tables, equations, diagrams, figures, charts, graphs, and photographs taken from 
sources such a published work, like research papers, books, periodicals, web Sites or 
other sources has been cited appropriately. Further, the opinions expressed or implied 
in the thesis shall be entirely of the candidate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Annexure – C 
 
Check List for Students/Academic Section at the time of pre submission 
 
1. Minimum duration of three years, including course work and a maximum of six years. 
 
2. Research Scholar should submit progress report every six months. Minimum 06 
satisfactorily progress report is required for thesis submission. Copy of every progress report 
should be send periodically to academic section for records. 
 
3. Pre-Ph.D. course work certificate /DMC with a 55% or above marks or its equivalent grade 
in the UGC 7-point scale. 
 
4. 6 copies of extended synopsis. 
 
5. Two research paper (along with the cover page and contents list of that issue) from which 
one research paper is in any SCI, Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in 
the conferences/seminars during the period of registration. The candidate should be the main 
author in the paper. The List of Publication out of thesis should be divided into three 
categories: 
 
(i) List of Published papers 
 
(ii) List of accepted papers 
 
(iii)List of communicated papers 
 
The format of the list is given below 
S.No Title of the paper 
Publisher 
Impact 
Referred 
Whether 
Remarks 
 
along 
with 
 
factor 
or 
Non- 
you 
paid  
 
volume, Issue No, 
 
 
Referred 
any money 
 
 
year 
of 
 
 
 
 
or  not for 
 
 
publication  
 
 
 
 
publication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Patents, if any 
 
 
 

 
Annexure-D 
 
Pre-submission Seminar Report 
 
 
Thesis examination is unable to commence until the pre-submission seminar has been completed. 
 
Candidate details: 
 
 
 
 
Name of the candidate 
 
 
 
Student Registration No: 
 
 
 
Faculty: 
 
 
Department: 
 
 
Family Name: 
 
 
 
 
Title:  
Supervisor/s: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Registration:  
     / 
/ 
 
 
 
 
Title of the thesis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Section A: Committee Report 
 
Members of the Committee 
S No 
Name 
Designation and Department 
1 
 
 
2 
 
 
3 
 
 
4 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
Oral presentation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On what date was the oral presentation given? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Did the candidate provide a satisfactory oral presentation of at least 20 minutes?
Yes  
No  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Did all members of the review panel attend the oral presentation? 
Yes  
No  
Written submission 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any additional requirements of the faculty and/or Department? 
 
Comments: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall feedback (If insufficient space please attach further information to this form) Comment on 
the quality of the content and delivery of the candidate’s written and oral presentation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Committee shall give specific Recommendation: Whether the candidate is allowed to submit his/her thesis 
as per the presentation of the work or modification are required. 
 
 
The research work is of high standard, novel and sufficient for the submission of the thesis 
 
Yes/No 
 
 
 
 
Signatures of committee members 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Annexure A-1 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
Dudhola 
Faculty of …………………………………… 
 
FORMAT TO BE USED FOR Preparation of Ph.D. Thesis 
 
1. ARRANGEMENT OF CONTENTS: 
 
The sequence in which the thesis material should be arranged and bound should be as follows: 
 
1.Cover page 
 
2.Inner cover page 
 
3.Dedication (optional) 
 
4.Candidate’s Declaration 
 
5.Certificate of the supervisor 
 
6.Acknowledgement 
 
7.Abstract 
 
8.Table of contents 
 
9.List of tables 
 
10. List of figures/graphs 
 
11. List of photographs 
 
12. List of abbreviations 
 
13. Body of the thesis 
 
14. References 
 
15. Appendices 
 
16. Brief bio data of the research scholar 
 
17. List of publications out of thesis 
 
 

 
 
2. PAGE DIMENSION, TYPING AND BINDING SPECIFICATIONS 
 
a. 
The dimension of the thesis should be in A4 size 
 
b. 
The Thesis should be hard bound with cover page printed on it in specified format. 
 
c. 
Photographs, if necessary, should be suitably mounted on the same quality paper as the 
thesis. 
 
d. 
The typing of cover page, title page, declaration of candidate, certificate of supervisor 
and name of chapters should be only on one side of the paper whereas the other printing 
should be on both sides of the paper. 
 
e. 
The chapter numbers should be indicated in Roman. 
 
 
f. 
Three copies of the thesis in soft bound and soft copy stored on CD. In case of candidate 
being supervised by more than one supervisor, appropriate number of additional copies 
must be submitted. 
 
g. 
The colour of the binding (in hard) would be Red. The cover should have the material 
indicated in the item ‘b’ above printed on it and should be written with golden ink 
 
h. 
The general text shall be typed in the font style ‘Times New Roman’ and Font size 
 
12. 
Use 1.5 spacing between the regular text and quotations. 
 
i. 
FONT 
 
REGULAR TEXT – Times Roman 12 pts. And normal print CHAPTER HEADING- Times 
Roman 16 pts., bold print and all capitals SECTION HEADINGS- Times Roman 12 
pts., bold print and all capitals SUBSECTION HEADINGS – Times Roman 12 pts., 
bold print and leading capitals i.e. only first letter in each word should be in capital. 
Single line spacing should be used for typing the general text. 
 
j. 
The margins for the regular text should as follows: 
 
Front Side - LEFT = 1.50”, RIGHT = 1.00”, TOP = 1.00”, BOTTOM = 1.00” Back 
Side - LEFT = 1.00”, RIGHT = 1.50”, TOP = 1.00”, BOTTOM = 1.00” 
 
3. 
PREPARATION FORMAT 
 
3.1       Cover Page - A specimen copy of the cover page of thesis is given in Appendix-1. 
 
3.2       Inner Cover Page - A specimen copy of the inner cover page of thesis is given in 
Appendix-2. 
 
3.3       Dedication - A specimen copy is given in Appendix-3. 
 
3.4       Candidate’s Declaration – A specimen copy of Declaration certificate is given in 
Appendix-4. 

 
 
3.5      Certificate of the supervisor – A specimen copy of Title page of certificate is given in 
Appendix-5. The certificate shall carry the supervisor’s signature and shall be 
followed by the Supervisor’s name, academic designation department etc. 
 
3.6       Acknowledgment – A specimen copy of Acknowledgement certificate is given in 
Appendix-6. 
 
3.7       Abstract – Abstract should be one or 2 pages synopsis of the thesis typed in one and 
a half line spacing, Font Style Times new Roman and Font Size 12. A specimen copy 
abstract of the thesis is given in Appendix-7. 
 
3.8       Table of contents – The table of contents should list all material following it as well 
as and material which precedes it. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing 
the matter under this head. A specimen copy of the Table of Contents is given in 
Appendix-8 
 
3.9        List of Tables – The list should use exactly the same captions as they appear above 
the tables in the text. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing the matter 
under this head. A specimen copy of the list of Tables is given in Appendix-9. 
 
3.10      List of Figures – The list should use exactly the same captions as they appear below      
the figures in the text. One and a half spacing should be adopted for typing the matter 
under this head. A specimen copy of the List of Figures is given in Appendix-10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
3.11 
List of photographs –A specimen copy of the List of photographs is given in Appendix-
11. 
 
3.12 
Body of the thesis - The chapters may be broadly divided into 5 parts (i) Introductory 
chapter including over view of the concerned area and organization of the thesis (ii) 
Literature review (iii) Scope and objective, methodology of the thesis 
 
(iv) Chapters developing the main theme of the thesis work (v) Conclusion and future 
scope of work. 
 
The main text will be divided into several chapters and each chapter may be further 
divided into several divisions and sub-divisions. 
 
 
The chapter title is the first-order heading. A chapter may be divided into section 
each of which has a section title (second-order heading). For example, in Chapter 
3, the sections will be numbered 3.1, 3.2, etc. If at all possible, do not further 
subdivide a section. 
 
 
Use subsections (third-order headings) only if unavoidable. For instance, in section 
3.2, the subsections will be numbered 3.2.1, 3.2.2, etc. Do not further subdivide 
beyond this point, for example, subsection 3.2.2 may not be further divided into 
sub-subsections 3.2.2.1, 3.2.2.2 etc. 
 
 
Tables and figures in a chapter should be placed in the immediate vicinity of the 
reference where they are cited. 
 
 
Footnotes should be used sparingly. They should be typed single space and placed 
directly underneath in the very same page, which refers to the material they 
annotate. 
 
3.13 
References – A specimen copy of Bibliography is given in Appendix 13. 
 
3.14 
Appendices – A specimen copy of Appendices is given in Appendix 14. 
 
3.15 
Brief bio data of the Ph.D. scholar – A specimen is given in Appendix 15. 
 
3.16 
List of Publications out of thesis –A specimen copy of the list of publication out of 
thesis is given in Appendix-16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Annexure-A2 
 
Check List for Students/R&D Section at the time of submission 
 
1. 
Minimum duration of three years, including course work and a maximum of six years. 
 
2. 
Research Scholar should submit progress report every six months. Minimum 06 satisfactorily 
progress report is required for thesis submission. Copy of every progress report should be 
send periodically to academic section for records. 
 
3. 
Pre-Ph.D. course work certificate /DMC with a 55% or above marks or its equivalent grade 
in the UGC 7-point scale. 
 
4. 
6 copies of extended synopsis. 
 
5. 
Two research paper (along with the cover page and contents list of that issue) from which one 
research paper is in any SCI, Scopus, and Web of sciences journals and two papers in the 
conferences/seminars during the period of registration. The candidate should be the 
 
main author in the paper. The List of Publication out of thesis should be divided into three 
categories: 
 
(i) 
List of Published papers 
 
(ii) 
List of accepted papers 
 
(iii) 
List of communicated papers 
 
The format of the list is given below 
S.No. Title of the paper 
Publisher 
Impact 
Whether 
Whether 
Remarks 
 
along 
with  
factor 
Referred 
you 
paid  
 
volume, Issue No,  
 
or 
Non- any money  
 
year 
of 
 
 
referred 
or  not for 
 
 
publication  
 
 
 
 
publication  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
6. 
Plagiarism report (not more than 10%) and certificate by supervisor and Chairman. 
 
7. 
Thesis submission fee of Rs. 3500/- 
 
8. 
No Dues Certificate from all the concerned departments/sections. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 1 & 2 
TITLE OF THESIS 
 
<Font Size 18<>1.5-line spacing> 
 
THESIS 
 
<Font Size 14><1.5-line spacing> 
 
submitted in fulfilment of the requirement of the degree of 
 
<Font Size 14<>Italic> 
 
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 
<Font Size 16> 
 
to 
 
<Font Size 14 <>Italic> 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
 
<Font Size 14<>Italic> 
 
by 
 
<Font Size 14 <>Italic> 
 
NAME OF THE CANDIDATE 
 
<Font Size 14> 
 
Registration No. 
 
Under the Supervision of 
 
<Font Size 14 <>Italic> 

 
 
NAME OF THE SUPERVISOR 
 
DESIGNATION OF SUPERVISOR 
 
<Font Size 14<>1.5-line spacing> 
 
logo 
 
Name of the Department 
 
Faculty of _________________ 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
 
Dudhola, Palwal, Haryana, India 
<Font Size 12><1.5-line spacing> 
 
MONTH, YEAR 
<Font Size 14, Bold> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 3 
 
DEDICATION 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> 
 
to 
 
My Parents/…… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
APPENDIX 4 
 
(A typical specimen of Acknowledgement) 
 
DECLARATION 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> 
 
I hereby declare that this thesis entitled <TITLE OF THESIS> by <NAME OF STUDENT>, being 
submitted in fulfilment of the requirements for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in <NAME OF 
THE BRANCH> under Faculty of____________________ of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, 
Dudhola, during the academic year ________, is a bona fide record of my original work carried out 
under 
guidance 
and 
supervision 
of 
NAME 
OF 
SUPERVISOR, 
DESIGNATION, 
DEPARTMENT and has not been presented elsewhere. 
 
I further declare that the thesis does not contain any part of any work which has been submitted for 
the award of any degree either in this university or in any other university. 
 
 
(Name of Student) 
 
Registration No. _________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 5 
 
CERTIFICATE 
 
<Font-Style Times New Roman, size – 16> 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, Font size 12> 
 
This is to certify that this Thesis entitled <TITLE OF THESIS> <by NAME OF STUDENT>, 
submitted in fulfilment of the requirement for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in <NAME OF 
THE BRANCH> under Faculty of____________________ of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, 
Dudhola, during the academic year_______, is a bonafide record of work carried out under my 
guidance and supervision. 
 
I further declare that to the best of my knowledge, the thesis does not contain any part of any work 
which has been submitted for the award of any degree either in this university or in any other 
university. 
 
 
 
 
(Signature of Supervisor) 
Name of Supervisor 
 
DESIGNATION 
 
Department of _________ 
Faculty of____________________ 
 
 
 
Dated: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 6 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> 
 
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my Supervisor <Name of Supervisor> / Joint 
Supervisor <Name of Joint Supervisor> for giving me the opportunity to work in this area. It would 
never be possible for me to take this thesis to this level without his/her innovative ideas and his/her 
relentless support and encouragement. 
 
………. 
………. 
 
 
 
 
(Name of Student) 
 
Registration No. __________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 7 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Appendix 8 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> 
 
a. Candidate’s Declaration 
 
b. Certificate of the supervisor 
 
c. Acknowledgement 
 
d. Abstract 
 
e. Table of Contents 
 
f. List of Tables 
 
g. List of Figures 
 
h. List of Photographs 
 
i. List of Abbreviations 
 
 

 
 
Contents /Body of Thesis 
 
(Suggested format for chapters, which may be modified as per requirement) 
 
1. Introduction 
 
2. Overview of Area 
 
3. Literature Survey Review 
 
4. Motivation 
 
5. Problem Formulation 
 
6. Objectives of the Thesis 
 
7. Methodology 
 
8. Organization of the Thesis 
 
9. Development of Main Work 
 
10. Result and Discussions 
 
11. Conclusion and scope for future work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 9 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> 
 
 
Table 
 
 
Page No 
 
Table 1.1 
 
Table1.2 
 
Table 2.1 
 
<Title of Table 1.1> 
 
<Title of Table 1.2> 
 
<Title of Table 2.1> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
APPENDIX 10 
 
LIST OF FIGURES/GRAPHS 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
 
Figure 
Page No. 
 
Figure 1.1 
<Title of Figure 1.1> 
 
Figure 2.1 
<Title of Figure 2.1> 
 
…………… 
 
…………… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 11 
 
LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
 
Photograph 
Page No. 
 
Photograph 1.1 
<Title of Photograph 1.1> 
 
Photograph 2.1 
<Title of Photograph 2.1> 
 
…………… 
 
…………… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 12 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
REFERENCES 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size -16 Bold> 
 
[1] A. Rezi and M. Allam, "Techniques in array processing by means of transformations, " in Control 
and Dynamic Systems, Vol. 69, Multidemsional Systems, C. T. Leondes, Ed. San Diego: Academic 
Press, 1995, pp. 133-180. 
 
[2] S. M. Hemmington, Soft Science. Saskatoon: University of Saskatchewan Press, 1997. 
 
[3] N. Osifchin and G. Vau, "Power considerations for the modernization of telecommunications in 
Central and Eastern European and former Soviet Union (CEE/FSU) countries," in Second 
International Telecommunications Energy Special Conference, 1997, pp. 9-16. 
 
[4] D. Sarunyagate, Ed., Lasers. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996. 
 
[5] O. B. R. Strimpel, "Computer graphics," in McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology, 
8th ed., Vol. 4. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1997, pp. 279-283. 
 
[6] K. Schwalbe, Information Technology Project Management, 3rd ed. Boston: Course Technology, 
2004. 
 
[7] L. Vertelney, M. Arent, and H. Lieberman, "Two disciplines in search of an interface: Reflections 
on a design problem," in The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design, B. Laurel, Ed. Reading, 
MA: Addison-Wesley, 1990. Reprinted in Human-Computer Interaction (ICT 235) Readings and 
Lecture Notes, Vol. 1. Murdoch: Murdoch University, 2005, pp. 32-37. 
 
[8] E. P. Wigner, "Theory of traveling wave optical laser," Physical Review, vol.134, pp. A635-A646, 
Dec. 1965. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 14 
 
 
APPENDICES 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
APPENDIX 15 
 
 
BRIEF PROFILE OF THE RESEARCH SCHOLAR 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size – 16 Bold> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, Font Size 12> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
APPENDIX 16 
 
 
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OUT OF THESIS 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, size-16> 
 
Body Text 
 
<Font Style Times New Roman, font size 12> 
 
 
 
List of Published Papers 
 
 
Sl. 
 
Name of 
Volume Year 
Pages
No 
Title of Paper 
Journal where        No. 
& Issue  
 
. 
 
published 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
 
 
2. 
 
 
3. 
 
 
4. 
 
 

 
 
List of Accepted Papers 
Sl.
No.
 
Name of 
Journal where 
accepted 
 
Volume & 
Issue 
 
Title of Paper 
No. 
Year 
5.
 
 
List of Communicated Papers 
 
 
Sl. 
Title of the Paper 
Name of 
Present 
Year
No. 
Journal 
Status 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Annexure E 
Proforma for approval of appointment of Joint-supervisor of a Research Scholar in Ph.D. 
programme at SVSU. 
(To be submitted to the Chairperson of the concerned Department at the time of submission of Synopsis by 
the Research scholar). 
1. Name of Co-supervisor (in capital letters) :_______________________________________________ 
2. Designation :_______________________________________________ 
3. Department / Discipline :_______________________________________________ 
4. Name of Organization/University :_______________________________________________ 
5. Academic Qualification :_______________________________________________ 
6. Specialization :_______________________________________________ 
7. No. of Publications (Attach Bio-Data with :_______________________________________________ 
list of publications _______________________________________________ 
8. No. of scholars under Supervision / :In GJUS&T:__________ Outside GJUS&T:______________ 
Co-supervision 
9. NOC issued by the Employer : ______________________________________________ 
of Co-supervisor (Annexure-1) 
10. Name of Research Scholar & Department : ______________________________________________ 
11. Topic of Research :__________________________________________________________________ 
 
(Signature) (Signature)…………………………… 
Name of supervisor: __________________ Name of Co-supervisor:________________________ 
Designation :______________________ Designation :____________________________ 
Department :______________________ Email ID : ___________________________ 
Email ID : ______________________ Contact No. : ___________________________ 
Contact No. : ______________________ 
Justification to be given by the Supervisor for appointment of Joint-supervisor : 
(In case of shortage of space, attach justification in separate Annexure) 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
Recommendations of SFRC of the concerned Department Eligible & Recommended stating whether the 
person is eligible for appointment Not Recommended as Joint-supervisor as per Ph.D. ordinance of SVSU 
(mark ✓whichever is applicable) 
 
Signature (Chairperson, SFRC) 
