 
Regulations 
For 
Doctor of Philosophy 
R2023 
 
 
 
 
 (As per UGC Regulations 2022) 
 
 
 
 
 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University 
 
 

SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY  
REGULATIONS FOR DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 
R 2023 
1. Introduction 
The ordinance conforms to University Grants Commission Gazette (Minimum Standards and 
Procedure for award of Ph.D. Degrees) Regulations, 2022. These Regulations are effective for the 
batches of students admitted from the academic session 2023-24 and onwards. 
2. Definitions 
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
a) “Adjunct Faculty” means a part-time or contingent instructor, but not full-time faculty 
member hired to teach by the university; 
b) “Course” means one of the specified units which go to comprise a programme of study; 
c) “Course Work” means courses of study prescribed by the Skill Faculty/Department to be 
undertaken by a student registered for the Ph.D. Degree; 
d) “COE” shall mean Controller of Examinations of the University; 
e) “Degree” means a degree awarded by Shri Vishwakarma Skill University in accordance 
with the provisions of section 22 (3) of the Act; 
f) “Dean” shall mean Dean of the concerned Skill Faculty; 
g) “External examiner” means an academician/researcher with published research work who 
is not part of the university; 
h) “Faculty” shall mean a skill Faculty of the University; 
i) “Foreign Educational Institution” means–(i) an institution duly established or 
incorporated in its home country and offering educational programmes at the 
undergraduate, postgraduate and higher levels in its home country and (ii) which offers 
programme(s) of study leading to the award of a degree through conventional face-to-face 
mode, but excluding distance, online, ODL mode; 
j) “Guide/Research Supervisor” means an academician/researcher recognized by the 
university to supervise the Ph.D. scholar for his/her research; 
k) “Industry Research Mentor” means a professional working in industry/research 
organization; 
l) “Industry Sponsored Candidate” means a PhD candidate who is employed in an industry 
and is sponsored by the industry for pursing the PhD degree; 
m) “Interdisciplinary Research” means research conducted by a Ph.D. scholar in two or more 
academic disciplines; 
n) “Joint Supervisor” shall mean a member of the academic staff of the University/industry 
other than the Supervisor, and approved by Skill Council on the recommendation of the 
SFRC to guide/supervise the research work of the research scholar; 
o) “Open and Distance Learning Mode” shall have the same meaning as defined under the 
UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations 
2020; 
p) “Online Mode” shall have the same meaning as defined under the UGC (Open and 
Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations 2020; 
q) “Plagiarism” means the practice of taking someone else’s work or idea and passing them 
as one’s own; 

r)  “Programme” stands for Doctor of Philosophy; 
s) “RAC” shall mean Research Advisory Committee for the Research Scholar of the 
Faculty/Department; 
t) “Research Outcome” means the socio-economic impact created through the PhD work 
done by the candidate; 
u) “Research Proposal” means a brief write-up giving an outline of the proposed research 
work which the Ph.D. scholar shall submit along with the application for registration for 
Ph.D. programme; 
v) “Skill Council” shall mean academic body of the university; 
w) “SFRC” shall mean a Skill Faculty Research Committee; 
x) “URS” shall mean University Research Scholarship; 
y) “University” means Shri Vishwakarma Skill University Words and expressions used and 
not defined in SVSU Act and not consistent with these Regulations shall have the 
meanings assigned to them in that Act. 
 
3. Eligibility Criteria for Admission to the Ph.D. Programme 
The following are eligible to seek admission to the Ph.D. programme: 
3.1 Candidates who have completed 1-year/2-semester master's degree programme after a 4-
year/8-semester bachelor’s degree programme or a 2-year/4-semester master’s degree programme 
after a 3-year bachelor’s degree programme or qualifications declared equivalent to the master’s 
degree by the corresponding statutory regulatory body, with at least 55% marks in aggregate or 
its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed or equivalent 
qualification from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation 
agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated 
under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit 
or assure quality and standards of the educational institution.  
 
3.2 A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those belonging to 
SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and 
other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 
 
3.3 Provided that a candidate seeking admission after a 4-year/8-semester bachelor’s degree 
programme should have a minimum of 75% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade on a point 
scale wherever the grading system is followed. A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade 
may be allowed for those belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, 
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the 
Commission from time to time. 
 
3.4 Candidates who have completed the M.Phil. programme with at least 55% marks in aggregate 
or its equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed or equivalent 
qualification from a foreign educational institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation 
agency which is approved, recognized or authorized by an authority, established or incorporated 
under a law in its home country or any other statutory authority in that country to assess, accredit 
or assure quality and standards of educational institutions, shall be eligible for admission to the 
Ph.D. programme. A relaxation of 5% marks or its equivalent grade may be allowed for those 
belonging to SC/ST/OBC (non-creamy layer)/Differently-Abled, Economically Weaker Section 

(EWS) and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to 
time. 
 
4. Procedure for Admission 
4.1 The admission shall be based on the criteria notified by the university, keeping in view the 
guidelines/norms in this regard issued by the UGC and other statutory/regulatory bodies 
concerned, and considering the reservation policy of the Haryana State Government from time 
to time. 
4.2 Admission to the Ph.D. programme shall be made using the following methods: 
i. The university shall admit students who qualify for fellowship/scholarship in UGC-
NET/UGC- CSIR NET/GATE/CEED and similar National level tests based on an interview. 
ii. The university shall admit students, who have not qualified UGC-NET/UGC- CSIR 
NET/GATE/CEED and similar National level tests, through an Entrance Test. The Entrance 
Test syllabus shall consist of 50% of research methodology, and 50% shall be subject- 
specific. Test syllabus of research methodology will be same for all disciplines. The syllabus 
for subject specific examination will be provided by the concerned department.  The entrance 
test will be conducted by examination department.  
iii. Students who have secured 50 % marks in the entrance test are eligible to be called for the 
interview. 
iv. A relaxation of 5 % marks will be allowed in the entrance examination for the candidates 
belonging to SC/ST/OBC/differently-abled category, Economically Weaker Section (EWS), 
and other categories of candidates as per the decision of the Commission from time to time. 
v.  The university shall decide the number of eligible students to be called for an interview 
based on the number of Ph.D. seats available. 
vi. Provided that for the selection of candidates based on the entrance test conducted by the 
university, a weightage of 70% for the entrance test and 30 % for the performance in the 
interview/viva- voce shall be given.  
vii. The performance of the student during interview will be assessed on the basis of 
understanding of industry-based research and its impact on socio-economic areas through 
presentation before duly constituted SFRC. 
4.3 The candidate applying for admission to the Ph.D. program of the university may also identify 
an industry research problem for Ph.D. research work and present the same during interview. 
Such candidates should have prior industry experience, or must have completed       at least 
two weeks of on-the-job training in the relevant industry at the time of interview.  
4.4 The university to conduct Ph.D. programmes, shall: 
i). Notify a prospectus well in advance on its website specifying the number of seats for 
admission, subject/discipline-wise distribution of available seats, criteria for admission, the 
procedure for admission, and all other relevant information for the candidates; 
          ii). Adhere to the State-level reservation policy, as applicable. 
4.5 The university shall maintain a list of Ph.D. supervisors (specifying the name of the 
supervisor, his or her designation, and the department/school/centre), along with the details of 
Ph.D. scholars (specifying the name of the registered Ph.D. scholar, the topic of his/her 
research and the date of admission) admitted under them on the website of the university and 
update this list every academic year. 
4.6 The candidate standing in the final merit list will be given provisional admission in PhD 
programme with the submission of required fee. The admitted candidate will be allotted 
provisional enrollment number by the University. The provisional enrollment number allotted 

to the scholar will be the registration number as and when his/her registration for PhD 
programs is recommended and approved by PGBoS of concerned faculty and the Skill 
Council. 
4.7 The fee for Ph.D. course shall be as notified in the prospectus. 
 
5. Course Work. 
5.1 Each admitted candidate shall be required to complete the mandatory regular PhD course 
work. 
5.2 The Credit requirement for the Ph.D. coursework is a minimum of 14 credits, including a 
“Research and Publication Ethics” course and a Research Methodology course. The Research 
Advisory Committee can also recommend UGC recognized online courses as part of the credit 
requirements for the Ph.D. programme. The structure of minimum credits requirement for the 
course work is as 
i. 
Research Methodology (3 Credits) 
ii. Research and Publication Ethics (RPE) (2 Credits) 
iii. Industry Orientation and Literature Survey (3 Credit)  
iv. Two Elective Subject(s) related to the area of research suggested by 
supervisor (3 Credits each) 
5.3 The respective Skill Faculty may offer additional credits for Elective subjects for the PhD 
coursework. The maximum no of credits preferably should not be more than 16. All Ph.D. 
scholars, irrespective of discipline, shall be required to train in teaching/education/ 
pedagogy/writing related to their chosen Ph.D. subject during their doctoral period. Ph.D. 
scholars may also be assigned 4-6 hours per week of teaching/research assistantship for 
conducting tutorial or laboratory work and evaluations. 
5.4 All research scholars admitted to Ph.D. Programme shall be required to complete the 
coursework with in two semesters. 
5.5 The candidate will be allowed to appear in the course work examinations, if he/she has 
attended not less than 75% of lectures delivered in theory as well as practical. 
5.6 Ph.D. scholar must obtain a minimum of 55% marks or its equivalent grade in the UGC 10-
point scale in the course work to be eligible to continue in the programme and submit his or 
her thesis. 
 
6. Guideline for Selection of Industry-based Research Problems, and Role of Industry 
Research mentor and Industry 
In line with motto of the University, the PhD program of the University will be based on 
research problems arising from industry and society. The general guidelines in this regard are 
as follows: 
6.1 Eligible supervisors will identify research problems in collaboration with 
industry/research organizations and also industry research mentors. These problems will 
be offered as research problems to the candidates admitted in Ph.D. program of the 
university.  
6.2 Industry professionals/scientists/professional working in R&D organizations with an 
undergraduate degree with more than 25 years of experience or post graduate degree with 
at least 15 years of professional/industry/research experience may be recognized as 
research mentors.  
6.3 The research mentor will provide the guidance and necessary support during the research 
work carried out by the candidate. 

6.4 The details of research problems, mentioned in point 6(1) above, will be forwarded to the 
Research and Development Cell through the Chairperson/Dean of each department/skill 
faculty.  
6.5 The tentative number of PhD seats and research areas may be decided on the basis of 
industry-based research problems identified by the research supervisors. There may be 
some additional seats (supernumerary) for Industry Sponsored candidates. 
6.6 The candidate needs to spend one month in industry after seeking admission in the 
university as part of industry orientation. The candidate should spend 60-90 hours in the 
industry/organization as part of industry orientation credit. 
6.7 The candidate will have flexibility to change the research mentor during the research 
program, in case 
a. 
the research mentor has left the organization or the research mentor 
proceeds on leave/deputation of more than one year from the parent 
organization. 
b. 
by mutual consent of research mentor and the research scholar 
The research scholar shall make a request in writing to change the research mentor to Dean 
R&D through the supervisor and Dean of respective skill faculty. 
6.8 Presentation after one month of industry orientation before a committee constituted by 
Dean R&D will be part of the three-credit course in PhD course work. There will be an 
external presentation for same at the time of end term assessment of course work also and 
the same needs to be conducted as per PhD scheme of respective skill faculty. The report 
of industry orientation duly signed by the research mentor needs to be submitted by the 
student.  
6.9 The industry will facilitate the candidate to work on a research problem that benefits the 
industry and contributes to its development in a direct or indirect way. The industry may 
support financially and professionally the full-time research scholar(s) during their 
research work. 
 
7. Skill Faculty Research Committee and Its functions 
7.1 Each Skill Faculty offering Ph.D. programme shall have a Skill Faculty Research Committee 
(SFRC). All faculty members of the SFRC must be qualified to be supervisors. The SFRC 
need to be approved by competent authority on recommendation of Dean of respective skill 
faculty. The information for same must be receded to Dean R&D. 
7.2 Application(s) for registration to the PhD programme after successful completion of course 
work from the eligible candidates on the prescribed format along with the synopsis prepared 
in consultation with the concerned supervisor shall be considered by SFRC.  
7.3 Dean of concerned department/faculty shall place the applications for registration along with 
the recommendations of Research Advisory Committee (RAC) before SFRC. SFRC will 
invite candidate(s) to defend the research proposal(s). In the synopsis student should mention 
the broad area of research and tentative topic of the research. The final topic of the research 
will be submitted by the students before six months of submission with recommendations of 
RAC. The SFRC may recommended the synopsis of research for consideration or suggest 
suitable changes in the synopsis of research.  
7.4 The SFRC shall consist of the following: 
i. 
Dean of the Skill Faculty - Chairperson 
ii. 
Two external experts, one from academia and industry each outside SVSU 
preferably at the level of Professor or equivalent (Nominated by the Vice 
Chancellor) 

iii. 
All Professors of the Skill Faculty 
iv. 
Two Associate Professors of the Skill Faculty by rotation and seniority with a 
term of two years 
v. 
Two Assistant Professors of the skill Faculty by rotation and seniority with a term 
of two years. 
vi. 
One Assistant Professor/Associate Professor/Professor of the skill Faculty as a 
representative of SC/ST/OBC. 
7.5 In such cases, where, Skill Faculty have strength of less than ten regular faculties, all members 
who are eligible to be supervisors, will be members of SFRC. Provided that where no faculty 
member is eligible to be the Chairperson of SFRC, the senior most faculty member if eligible 
to be research (Ph.D.) supervisor will convene the meetings of the SFRC as its convener. The 
meetings of the SFRC may be held at least once in every semester, if required the number of 
meetings may be more than one.  
7.6 Two/fifth of members shall form a quorum. The supervisor of the candidate if not a member 
of SFRC, may be called as special invitee for case of concerned candidate.  
7.7 The SFRC shall clearly mention the Registration No., Name of Scholar, Topic of Research, 
Name of Supervisor, Co-Supervisor if any recording full justification in its recommendations. 
7.8 SFRC shall recommend the registration of qualified candidate with the nominated supervisor 
and while recommending the registration of the candidate for consideration by Post Graduate 
Board of Studies (PGBoS), the SFRC shall clearly state whether in its opinion, 
7.8.1 
The subject proposed for research is suitable or not 
7.8.2 
The supervisor(s) recommended is/are eligible or not 
7.9 The recommendations of SFRC for PhD registrations shall be placed before PGBoS of faculty, 
and Skill Council for consideration and approval, respectively. The meeting of PGBoS will 
normally be held within one month of the meeting of SFRC.  
7.10 The date of conformation of registration of the research scholar shall be same on which the 
PGBoS recommends the registration of candidate.  
7.11 The SFRC shall also constitute the Research Advisory Committee on recommendation of 
Research supervisor. It must be constituted within one month from the date of provisional 
registration of the candidate or before the completion of one-month mandatory industry 
orientation credit by the respective candidate. 
7.12 The minutes of SFRC must be circulated to Dean R&D for information 
 
8. Research Advisory Committee (RAC) and its Functions 
8.1 There shall be a Research Advisory Committee for each Ph.D. scholar. The Research 
Supervisor of the Ph.D. scholar concerned shall be the Convener of this committee, and this 
committee shall have the following responsibilities: 
i. 
To review the research proposal and finalize the topic of research. 
ii. To guide the Ph.D. scholar in developing the study design and methodology of 
research and identify the course(s) that he/she may have to do. 
iii. To periodically review and assist in the progress of the research work of the Ph.D. 
scholar. 
8.2 Each semester, a Ph.D. scholar shall appear before the Research Advisory Committee to make 
a presentation and submit a brief report on the progress of his/her work for evaluation and 
further guidance. The Research Advisory Committee shall submit its recommendations along 
with a copy of Ph.D. scholar’s progress report to the SFRC. A copy of such recommendations 
shall also be provided to the Ph.D. scholar. 
8.3 In case the progress of the Ph.D. scholar is unsatisfactory, the Research Advisory Committee 

shall record the reasons for the same and suggest corrective measures. If the Ph.D. scholar 
fails to implement these corrective measures, the Research Advisory Committee may 
recommend, with specific reasons, the cancellation of the registration of the Ph.D. scholar 
from the Ph.D. programme to SFRC.  
8.4 The structure of Research Advisory committee (RAC) shall be: 
Research Supervisor of the Scholar- Convener, and two experts (One Internal and One 
external outside the university) and an industry research mentor. One of the experts should 
be at the level of Professor/Associate Professor or equivalent with proven record of 
research guidance in the relevant/allied area of research. RAC shall be approved by SFRC. 
 
9. Duration of the Programme 
9.1 Ph.D. Programme shall be for a minimum duration of three years, including course work, and 
a   maximum duration of six (6) years from the date of admission to the Ph.D. programme. 
9.2 A maximum of an additional two (2) years can be given through a process of re-registration 
as per the Statute/Ordinance of the university; provided, however, that the total period for 
completion of a Ph.D. programme should not exceed eight (8) years from the date of admission 
in the Ph.D. programme. 
9.3 Provided further that, female Ph.D. scholars and Persons with Disabilities (having more than 
40% disability) may be allowed an additional relaxation of two (2) years; however, the total 
period for completion of a Ph.D. programme in such cases should not exceed ten (10) years 
from the date of admission in the Ph.D. programme. 
9.4 Female Ph.D. Scholars may be provided Maternity Leave/Child Care Leave for up to 240 days 
in the entire duration of the Ph.D. programme. 
9.5 The candidates who are awarded fellowships by the university/outside agency to carry out 
PhD work shall require to stay in the concerned department/faculty of the university for whole 
duration of the fellowship.  
9.6 The office of Dean of the respective skill faculty must maintain the attendance register of the 
candidates enrolled in the PhD programme. 
9.7 No research scholar shall join any other course or appear in any other examination conducted 
by the University leading to the awarded of degree/diploma during the period of his/her study. 
9.8 Every research scholar shall be required to submit half yearly report on the prescribed 
Performa to the Department.  
9.9 In case the progress of the research scholar is mentioned unsatisfactory, the RAC shall record 
the reasons for the same and suggest corrective measures.  
9.10 In case, the research scholar fails to implement the corrective measures as suggested by the 
RAC and progress of the subsequent semester/half year is also found unsatisfactory, the case 
needs to be presented in the upcoming meeting of SFRC. The SFRC may recommend, along 
with the observation of RAC, to the P.G. Board of Studies for cancellation of the registration 
of the said candidate for approval of skill council.  
 
10. Allocation of Research Supervisor 
Eligibility criteria to be a Research Supervisor, Co-Supervisor, Number of Ph.D. scholars 
permissible per supervisor, etc. 
10.1 Permanent faculty members working as Professor/Associate Professor of the university with 
a Ph.D., and at least five research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals and 
permanent faculty members working as Assistant Professors in the University with a Ph.D., 
and at least three research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals may be 
recognized as a Research Supervisor in the university or in its affiliated Post-Graduate 

Colleges/institutes.  
10.2 Additionally, industry exposure for all faculty members shall be a mandatory requirement 
to be recognized as Ph.D. supervisors. Faculty members should have prior industry 
experience, or should have completed on the job training of at least two weeks in any relevant 
Industry. 
10.3 All research supervisors shall be recognized on recommendation of PG BOS of respective 
department of respective Skill Faculty duly approved by SFRC. Such recognized research 
supervisors cannot supervise research scholars in other institutions, where they can only act 
as co-supervisors. 
10.4 For Ph.D. scholars working in Central government/ State government research institutions 
whose degrees are given by the university, the scientists in such research institutions who are 
equivalent to Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor can be recognized as 
supervisors if they fulfill the above requirements. 
10.5 Co-Supervisors from within the same department or other departments of the university or 
other institutions may be permitted with the approval of the competent authority. 
10.6 Adjunct Faculty members shall not act as Research Supervisors and can only act as co-
supervisors. 
10.7 In case of interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary research work, if required, a Co-Supervisor 
from outside the Department/Skill Faculty/University may be appointed. 
10.8 An eligible Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor can guide up to eight (8) / six 
(6) / four (4) Ph.D. scholars, respectively, at any given time. 
10.9 In case of relocation of a female Ph.D. scholar due to marriage or otherwise, the research 
data shall be allowed to be transferred to the Higher Educational Institution to which the 
scholar intends to relocate, provided all the other conditions in these Regulations are 
followed, and the research work does not pertain to a project sanctioned to the 
university/Supervisor by any funding agency. Such scholar shall, however, give due credit 
to the university and the supervisor for the part of research already undertaken. 
10.10  Faculty members with less than three years of service before superannuation shall not be 
allowed to take new research scholars under their supervision. However, such faculty 
members can continue to supervise Ph.D. scholars who are already registered until 
superannuation and as a co-supervisor after superannuation, but not after attaining the age of 
70 years. 
 
11. Change of Supervisor 
11.1 In case the supervisor has expired or has left the services of University or the supervisor   
proceeds on leave/deputation of more than one year and the research scholar make a request 
in writing to change the supervisor. 
Or 
11.2 By mutual consent of supervisor and the research scholar 
Or  
11.3 In case of extreme hardship where it becomes almost impossible for the candidate/supervisor 
to work together, the candidate/supervisor may submit representation to the Dean of 
concerned faculty for necessary action. The Dean of concerned faculty shall refer the matter 
before SFRC and PGBoS for decision. However, the change in such cases shall be allowed 
after approval of Skill Council. 
11.4 The recommendations for these cases must need to be submitted to Dean R&D for 
information.  
 
12. Admission of International Students in Ph.D. programme 

1. Each supervisor can guide up to two international research scholars on a supernumerary 
basis over and above the permitted number of Ph.D. scholars as specified in clause 6.2 
above. 
2. Eligibility criteria for admission to the PhD program of foreign nationals is same as 
mentioned in clause 3. Foreign nationals must provide evidence of language competence 
suited to the Skill Faculty they wish to join. Foreign nationals are exempted from entrance 
test. 
3. At any point, the total number of Ph.D. scholars under a faculty member, either as a 
supervisor or a co-supervisor, shall not exceed the number prescribed in clause 10.8. 
 
13. Financial Assistance to Research Scholars 
1. Research scholars who are working in projects as JRF and SRF shall get financial 
assistance from the fund of the projects. 
2. For Full-time Ph.D. scholars who do not have any financial assistance will be eligible for 
financial assistance ship. Each Skill Faculty will have two scholarships every year. The 
scholarship will be University Research Scholarship (URS), and it will be awarded on the 
basis of the joint merit of the entrance test and interview.  The amount of this scholarship 
shall be Rs.15,000/- per month. It will be tenable for two years in the first instance. This 
scholarship may be extended only for a period not exceeding one year i.e. 3rd year by the 
Vice-Chancellor on the recommendations of the Committee consisting of the Dean, 
Chairperson of the Department and the Supervisor of the scholar.  
3. Each scholar receiving this scholarship shall also receive a contingency grant of Rs. 5000/- 
per annum. This amount may be utilized on apparatus, chemicals, books and journals, 
Photostat copies, macro films, typing, stationery, postage and field work/travel, 
conference/workshops needed in connection with the approved research projects with the 
approval of the Dean of the Faculty on the recommendations of the Supervisor. The 
contingency grant is not intended for making payment of examination and other fees. 
4. This scholarship shall be awarded on the recommendations of the Selection Committee 
consisting of the Dean of the Faculty and two senior members of the Faculty. 
5. This scholarship will be awarded from the date of joining in the Faculty before registration 
including pre-registration period. However, the amount will be payable after his/her 
registration in the department. Failure to get registered will disqualify the candidate for this 
scholarship. 
6. The scholar will be required to submit a certificate of progress and satisfactory work, duly 
countersigned by his/her Supervisor and recommended by the concerned RAC to the SFRC 
every six months. The continuance of the fellowship would be subject to satisfactory 
progress of work of the scholars. 
7. The scholar shall complete the full period of research work. In the event of a scholar 
discontinuing or giving up his work before the expiry of two years, or before the expiry of 
the extended period, if extension was allowed, for no valid reason he shall be required to 
refund to the university the entire amount received by him. 
8. Foreign research scholars must show proof of financial support for the duration of the 
Ph.D. enrolment. 
9. Financial assistance shall not be provided where the research scholar is availing paid study 
leave. 
 
14 Evaluation and Assessment Methods, minimum standards/credits for award of the degree, 
etc. 

14.1 Every research scholar will be required to show continuous semester wise progress after the 
completion of course work (Ist Semester) of his/her Ph.D. work from IInd Semester onward 
till the submission of the thesis and it will be monitored by the supervisor and research mentor 
of the candidate.  
14.2 Every research scholar shall be required to submit his half yearly (semester report) on the 
prescribed proforma within 10 days of end of each semester. The supervisor of the research 
Scholar will give assessment about the progress of the scholar. The Report shall be placed 
before the RAC for its evaluation in its meeting.  
14.3 The registration form, progress report along with receipt of fee paid for that half year 
(Semester) will be submitted to the Dean/Chairperson of the faculty/department concerned 
for record and he/she will ensure, before accepting the progress report, that the scholar has 
paid all fees/dues up to the period of the submission of the half yearly report.  
14.4 In case two consecutive six monthly (semester) reports are unsatisfactory, on the 
recommendations of the RAC the SFRC may recommend to PGBoS for cancellation of the 
registration. The Dean/Chairperson of the Faculty/Department concerned shall submit one 
copy of the progress report of the scholar to the Dean R&D along with minutes of SFRC.  
14.5 Upon satisfactory completion of course work and obtaining the marks/grade prescribed in 
clause (6) of Regulation 5 above, the Ph.D. scholar shall be required to undertake research 
work and produce a draft dissertation/thesis. 
14.6 Before submitting the dissertation/thesis, the Ph.D. scholar shall make a presentation before 
SFRC, which shall also be open to RAC members, faculty members and other research 
scholars/students. The feedback may be incorporated into the draft thesis under advice 
of the supervisor. The Dean of the concerned faculty shall issue a circular one week prior to 
pre-submission presentation on the recommendation of the supervisor.  
14.7 A Ph.D. research scholar shall publish at least two research paper in any SCI/Scopus/Web of 
sciences/ABDC indexed journals before submission of the thesis and produce evidence for 
the same in the form of an acceptance letter or a reprint. 
14.8 The Registration & Scholarship (R&S) Branch shall provide information regarding 
submission of fee for the thesis and the Research Scholar shall be required to take ‘No Dues’ 
from R&S, Accounts, Library, concerned Department and Hostel etc. The thesis shall be 
accepted by the Examination Branch after production of No Dues.  
14.9 The university shall have a mechanism using well-developed software applications to detect 
plagiarism in research work and the research integrity shall be an integral part of all the 
research activities leading to the award of a Ph.D. degree. The thesis should be plagiarism 
free, and guidelines issued in this regard by UGC shall be followed. 
14.10 A Ph.D. scholar shall submit the thesis for evaluation, along with (a) an undertaking from the 
Ph.D. scholar that there is no plagiarism and (b) a certificate from the Research Supervisor 
attesting to the originality of the thesis and that the thesis has not been submitted for the award 
of any other degree/diploma to any other Higher Educational Institution. 
14.11 A scholar shall submit his/her thesis in English medium. He/she shall submit four copies of 
the thesis along with six copies of the summary of the thesis in about 300 words in English 
medium indicating how far the thesis embodies the result of his own research and in what 
respects his/her investigations appear to him/her to advance the knowledge of subject of 
his/her thesis.  
14.12 The candidate may submit the copies of the summary within one month of the meeting of 
SFRC in which Pre-submission seminar presentation was given, so that COE may get the 
examiners appointed with approval of competent authority in anticipation of the submission 

of the thesis. The summary may be sent to the examiners while seeking their consents for 
evaluation of the thesis. 
14.13 The scholar shall initially submit the thesis in soft binding form along with soft copy of the 
thesis preferably in pen drive. After the evaluation of thesis by the examiners, if both the 
examiners find the thesis worthy of being awarded Ph.D. degree, the Secrecy Branch shall 
inform the scholar through the supervisor within 15 days to submit hard bound copy of his/her 
thesis. If the thesis has been accepted with minor changes, the Secrecy Branch will intimate 
the scholar through the supervisor within 15 days of receipt of both the evaluation reports. 
14.14 The Ph.D. thesis submitted by a Ph.D. scholar shall be evaluated by his/her Research 
Supervisor and at least two external examiners who are experts in the field and not in 
employment of the Higher Educational Institution concerned. Such examiner(s) should be 
academics with a good record of scholarly publications in the field. Wherever possible, one 
of the external examiners should be chosen from outside India. A panel of eight examiners 
(four examiners within country and four examiners outside the country) will be sent to Vice 
Chancellor for finalization of two examiners. The viva-voce board shall consist of the 
Research Supervisor and at least one of the two external examiners and may be conducted 
online. The viva-voce shall be open to the members of the Research Advisory 
Committee/SFRC/faculty members’/research scholars, and students. The research mentor 
must be invited as the special invitee at the time of final viva-voce. 
14.15 The scholar will submit the revised thesis incorporating all the changes, suggested by the 
examiners, in hard bound form in the faculty/Department concerned. The scholar and 
supervisor shall submit a signed declaration along with the final thesis that all the 
modifications suggested by both the examiners have been incorporated in the final thesis.  
14.16 The research scholar shall submit four printed/typed copies of his/her thesis, mentioning the 
name of the candidate, supervisor etc. along with two soft copies of thesis in pdf files on 
separate CDs. The title page of the Ph.D. thesis would be in Maroon Colour with Golden 
Printing on it.  
14.17 It shall be typed both sides (Font-times New roman, Size-12 and Line spacing-1.5) and should 
include the pages having title, acknowledgement, research mentor certificate, contents, 
references etc. and shall be a piece of research work characterized either by discovery of new 
facts or enunciation of a new theory or theories or by fresh interpretation of known facts and 
must have some socio-economic impact.  
14.18 All the files will be converted in PDF format and finally submit the softcopy of the final hard 
bound thesis preferably in pen drive. The thesis finally submitted shall have all the essential 
elements (like Title of Thesis, declaration regarding prevention of plagiarism, certificates, 
abstract, dedication, Acknowledgement, research mentor certificate, table of contents, list of 
abbreviations, list of tables and figures, list of appendices (if any), chapters, conclusion, 
References, list of publications, Proof of Publications).  
14.19 The viva-voce of the Ph.D. scholar to defend the thesis shall be conducted if both the external 
examiners recommend acceptance of the thesis after incorporating any corrections suggested 
by them. If one of the external examiners recommends rejection, the university shall send the 
thesis to an alternate external examiner from the approved panel of examiners, and the viva-
voce examination shall be held only if the alternate examiner recommends acceptance of the 
thesis. If the alternate examiner does not recommend acceptance of the thesis, the thesis shall 
be rejected, and the Ph.D. scholar shall be declared ineligible for the award of a Ph.D. 
14.20 The university shall complete the entire process of evaluating a Ph. D. thesis, including the 
declaration of the viva-voce result, within a period of six (6) months from the date of 
submission of the thesis. 

14.21 After the viva-voce examination, the notification for the degree to be awarded or rejected with 
approval from /Vice Chancellor will be issued. Further, provisional degree shall be issued 
from the date of meeting of final viva voce to such students in whose cases the Committee 
has recommended for the award of Ph.D. Degree.  
14.22 After finalization of the award of Ph.D. Degree, one copy (both hard and soft) will be sent to 
the University Library and the other to the Department. The third copy may be returned to the 
candidate.  
 
15. Ph.D. through Part-time Mode 
1. Ph.D. programme through part-time mode will be permitted, provided all the conditions 
are fulfilled. 
2. The university shall obtain a “No Objection Certificate” through the candidate for a part-
time Ph.D. programme from the appropriate authority in the organization where the 
candidate is employed, clearly stating that: 
i. 
The candidate is permitted to pursue studies on a part-time basis. 
ii. His/her official duties permit him/her to devote sufficient time for research. 
iii. If required, he/she will be relieved from the duty to complete the course work. 
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations or any other law, for the time 
being in force, the University shall not conduct Ph.D. programmes through distance and/or 
online mode. 
16. Grant of M.Phil. Degree  
The university shall not offer the M.Phil. (Master of Philosophy) programme. 
17. Issuing a Provisional certificate. 
Prior to the actual award of the Ph.D. degree, the university shall issue a provisional certificate to 
the effect that the Ph.D. is being awarded in accordance with the provisions of UGC Regulations 
2022. 
18. Award of Ph.D. degrees prior to Notification of these Regulations 
Award of degrees to candidates already registered and pursuing Ph.D. till the date of Notification 
of these Regulations shall be governed by the previous Ph.D. ordinance of the University, 2020-
21, in accordance with UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil./Ph.D. 
Degrees) Regulations, 2016.  
19. Depository with INFLIBNET. 
Following the successful completion of the evaluation process and before the announcement of the 
award of the Ph.D. degree(s), the university shall submit an electronic copy of the Ph.D. thesis to 
INFLIBNET, for hosting the same so as to make it accessible to all the Higher Educational 
Institutions and research institutions. 
 
