--- PAGE 41 ---
Industry Partners
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
ANAND Group: ANAND Group was founded by Deep C Anand, and named after the founder. The 
company manufactures automotive components. It is responsible for introducing diﬀerent kinds of 
automotive equipment into the Indian market. The history of ANAND dates back to 1961 when Mr Deep C 
Anand, Founder of ANAND and Chairman of the Deep C Anand Foundation, as an enterprising young man 
of 27 years, set up his ﬁrst business venture, - Gabriel India. The ﬂagship company of the Group, Gabriel, 
was set up in collaboration with Maremont Corporation (now Gabriel Ride Control Products of ArvinMeritor 
Inc.), USA, for manufacturing shock absorbers at Mulund in Mumbai.
East West Automation Technology Private Limited: Established in 1994, East West Automation Tech 
Pvt. Ltd. is an ISO 9001, TS-16949, and UL-certiﬁed company. It is a well-recognized manufacturer and 
exporter of high-quality wiring harnesses, catering to diverse sectors including automotive, 
telecommunications, consumer electronics (white goods), and power solutions. The company's product 
range includes Automotive Harnesses, Telecom Harnesses, CNG Harnesses, White Goods Harnesses, 
and UPS/Inverter Harnesses. Additionally, it oﬀers a comprehensive range of Molex housings, terminals, 
connectors, and headers.
Jay Bharat Maruti (JBM) Group: JBM group, a joint venture with Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL), is 
keeping pace with the steep rise in demand and quality of passenger cars/vehicles. Even in the backdrop 
of entry of international auto players in the country, JBM has successfully expanded its manufacturing 
capacity and capability. Its world–class manufacturing capabilities include imported and indigenous press 
lines and robotic welding lines as well as plating and painting facilities. The JBM Group has a Pan-India 
presence with over 40 production units spread across the country.
Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd.: Padget Electronics Pvt. Ltd., incorporated in June 2013 and 
headquartered in Noida, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dixon Technologies (India) Ltd. which is India's 
leading provider in the Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) sector. As part of the Dixon Group, 
Padget Electronics plays a key role in advancing India's electronics manufacturing capabilities. Dixon 
Technologies focuses on high-value segments including lighting electronics, consumer electronics, home 
appliances, mobile phones, and reverse logistics. Padget Electronics oﬀers comprehensive end-to-end 
EMS solutions encompassing product design, global sourcing, manufacturing, and quality assurance. 
The company's manufacturing facilities are accredited with recognized Quality Management Systems and 
Environmental Management Systems, ensuring adherence to the highest standards of quality, eﬃciency, 
and sustainability.
Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. Since its inception in 2015, Padmini VNA Mechatronics Pvt. Ltd. 
has been originating sustainable energy systems that embody several breakthroughs in optics, 
mechanics, thermodynamics, power electronics and tracking algorithms. It works towards a cleaner world 
and innovating to develop sustainable energy technology solutions for the future. This company deals with 
the world's most eﬀcient solar heat generator (CST H3500), AI enabled ultra-high eﬀciency evaporation 
system, low cost, reliable and durable PV trackers and installations. It has got CST & Solar Cooker 
Excellence Award 2016, presented at the national workshop on concentrating solar technologies & solar 
cookers on 29 April 2016 at New Delhi and certifcate of appreciation for proactive manufacturer in 
innovation of CST Systems by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Govt. of India.
Roop Automotives Ltd. (RAL): RAL is one of the largest OEM suppliers of auto components like steering 
yokes, automotive connecting rods, automotive housing, diﬀerential housings, connecting rods, auto 
steering parts, and safety automotive parts. RAL has established its name in the auto components industry 
and has a strong presence in Tier II segment of the industry.
Industry Partners
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
Industry Partners
Senior India Private Limited: Senior India Private Limited is a UK-based MNC with its headquarters in 
London. It is registered in the London Stock Exchange. Senior has operations in 14 countries with 33 
manufacturing facilities worldwide. Senior India Private Limited is a 100% subsidiary of Senior PLC UK. 
Senior India was established in 1993 under the name of Inalsa Flexonics that was taken over by the Senior 
Group in 1998. Senior designs, manufactures, and markets high-technology components and systems for 
the principal original equipment producers worldwide in aerospace, defense, land vehicles, and energy 
markets. Senior India is a leading manufacturer of Automotive Flexible Exhaust Connectors (Bellow and 
Interlock types), and SS Bellows. Senior India has also introduced engine products, viz. EGR coolers, Fuel 
rails, EGR tubes, Turbo Oil Drains, Turbo Oil Feeds, etc.
Hero MotoCorp: Hero MotoCorp Limited is an Indian multinational motorcycle and scooter manufacturer 
headquartered in Delhi. It is one of the world's largest two-wheeler manufacturers and has a market share 
of about 46% in the Indian two-wheeler industry. The market capitalization of the company was ₹59,600 
crore (equivalent to ₹700 billion or US$8.8 billion in 2023). Hero Motocorp has 05 Manufacturing Facilities 
based at Dharuhera, Gurugram, Neemrana, Haridwar & Halol. A new manufacturing facility is in the 
process of being set up in Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh. Spread over 600 acres, the company has invested 
1600 crores in setting up this greenﬁeld facility. These plants together have a production capacity of over 
7.6 million 2-wheelers per year. Hero MotoCorp has a sales and service network with over 6,000 
dealerships and service points across India. It has had a customer loyalty program since 2000, called the 
Hero Honda Passport Program which is now known as Hero GoodLife Program. The company has an 
annual capacity of 9.1 million units in its eight manufacturing facilities. Apart from these manufacturing 
facilities the company also has two R&D facilities, in Germany & Jaipur.
SKH Metals Ltd.: Established in the year 1986, Mark Auto was rechristened as SKH Metals Ltd. in 2006 
with the management takeover by Krishna Group. It has since then grown from strength to strength in last 
7 Years along with its principal customer, Maruti Suzuki. SKH Metals was awarded major business and 
thus followed MSIL in establishing a new plant in Manesar. This new facility is spread over 4 acres. This 
facility was further expanded to 6 acres in 2009-10 to service the growing business of MSIL. With MSIL's 
foray into technology, SKH Metals Ltd. also established various technical alliances with the leading Global 
Tier 1 auto component manufacturers. With its special prowess and expertise, SKH Metals Ltd. has for 
three decades been manufacturing products like Fuel Tanks, Axle Housings, and Sheet Metal Welded 
Assemblies, Suspension Frames, and control arms.
43

--- PAGE 54 ---
About the Programs
 
 
 
Adamant HR Consulting Private Limited: Adamant HR Consulting Private Limited is an integrated HR 
solution company, established in 2012 with their registered oﬃce at Delhi is a group of Professionals who 
have been active in the ﬁeld of Human Resource Management, Executive Search, Recruitment Solutions, 
Temp Staﬃng Services, RPO, Payroll Management, Training, Quality System, Organizational 
Development, Business Process Improvement, Soft Skill Training, Education and Corporate Services for 
a long time. They help clients to reach their objective through constantly getting the right people and to help 
human resource right opportunities, providing full HR solutions to client companies India/ Middle-East/ 
Other countries with some special services like Executive Search, Recruitment Solutions, Temp Staﬃng 
Services, RPO, Payroll Management, Training. 
Airport Authority of India: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is a statutory body under the ownership of 
the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India. It is responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining, 
and managing civil aviation infrastructure in India. It provides Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air 
Traﬃc Management (CNS/ATM) services over the Indian airspace and adjoining oceanic areas. AAI 
currently manages a total of 137 airports, including 34 international airports, 10 Customs Airports, 81 
domestic airports, and 23 Civil enclaves at Defense airﬁelds. AAI also has ground installations at all 
airports and 25 other locations to ensure the safety of aircraft operations. 
All India Chartered Accountants Society: AICAS – ALL INDIA CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
SOCIETY is a Non-Government Organisation founded in 1989, with the objectives of developing and 
growth of the profession of Chartered Accountants, to provide necessary education, training, assistance, 
and guidance to Chartered Accountants to enable them to serve trade, industry & commerce eﬀectively 
and utilize their professional skills with independence, integrity and intelligence.  
Biryani by Kilo (Sky Gate Hospitality): Biryani By Kilo (BBK) – India's most loved Biryani & Kebab 
delivery chain since 2015, with the presence of 70+ royal dine-in outlets pan India is owned by Skygate 
Hospitality. BBK has spread arms across 29+ cities - Delhi NCR, Mumbai, Pune, Lucknow, Kolkata, 
Punjab, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Ranchi, Guwahati, Jamshedpur, Goa & Bangalore, reviving the 
royal traditions in the hearts of India. They are also the ﬁrst ones to introduce 'Handi Biryani' concept and 
deliver freshly prepared biryani for individual orders.
Bikanervala Foods Pvt. Ltd.: Bikanervala Foods Pvt. Ltd. is a leading manufacturer of Indian foods, 
snacks, and sweets, and restaurateur in India and abroad. Bikanervala has paid ample attention to the 
aspect of training and skilling of its workforce and has suﬃcient infrastructure.
Cantabil Retail: Cantabil Retail India Ltd. is in the business of designing, manufacturing, branding, and 
retailing apparel under the brand name CANTABIL. The Company started its garments manufacturing and 
retailing business in the year 2000. The company was converted into a Public Limited Company and 
received a fresh Certiﬁcate of Incorporation dated August 26, 2009, in the name of Cantabil Retail India 
Limited. Today Cantabil has a network of 400+ exclusive retail outlets & employee strength of more than 
3700+ spread across India. The CANTABIL brand oﬀers a complete range of formal wear, party wear, and 
casual & ultracasual clothing for Men and Women in the middle to high-income group. 
Concentrix Daksh: Concentrix, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: SNX), is a 
technology enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement and 
improvement of business performance for some of the world's best brands. They create better business 
outcomes and diﬀerentiate their clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and ﬁnancial 
services; insurance; healthcare; technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; retail 
and e- commerce; travel and transportation; and energy and public-sector
Industry Partners
54

--- PAGE 55 ---
Country Inn & Suites by Radisson GHPL : Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Sohna Gurugram is a Star 
Property Hotel located between the cities of Gurgaon and Sohna and provides convenience for business 
and leisure travelers alike. 
Courtyard by Mariott: Courtyard by Marriott Aravali Resort Faridabad is Courtyard Faridabad Aravalli 
Resort is a 158-room Star Property Resort oﬀering an urban retreat near Delhi - NCR unlike any other and 
is a short drive from Delhi-NCR, Village Pakhal Faridabad and downtown Faridabad.
Cyfuture India Pvt. Ltd.:  Cyfuture India Pvt Ltd., is vesting organizations of all sizes with inventive 
business solutions ensuring high-caliber performance and improvised brand image. Being a brand that is 
internationally famed for stupendous service standards, competent handling of IT infrastructure, and 
reliable corporate image, they have over 2000 zealous experts catering to the diversiﬁed requirements of 
businesses from sectors like e- commerce, retail, information technology, software services, education, 
banking & ﬁnance, and government bodies.
Ease My Process: Ease My Process is an outsourced bookkeeping, accounting, taxation, and advisory 
services provider specialising in providing services to small to mid-size businesses and CPA ﬁrms. They 
aim to ease and streamline bookkeeping, accounting, payroll, and tax calculation for all types of business 
and help companies and CPA ﬁrms bring eﬃciency and reduce cost.
Frontier Group : Frontier Group is more than 60 years old with its corporate oﬃce in Gurgaon and the 
business spread over Delhi NCR and Madhya Pradesh.Frontier Group is one of the leading automobile 
group in India with more than 25 outlets spread across NCR and Madhya Pradesh region.Frontier Group 
has 6 leading Brands like KIA, Hyundai, Honda, Volkswagen, Skoda & JCB. We have a separate vertical 
for Used Cars & for Insurance as well.
HDFC Bank: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC) was amongst the ﬁrst to receive 
an 'in principle' approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up a bank in the private sector, as part 
of RBI's liberalization of the Indian Banking Industry in 1994. The bank was incorporated in August 1994 in 
the name of 'HDFC Bank Limited' with its registered oﬃce in Mumbai, India. HDFC Bank commenced 
operations as a Scheduled Commercial Bank in January 1995.
Mazars: Mazars is a global professional services network oﬀering a range of services including audit, 
accountancy, advisory, tax, and legal services. It operates as an internationally integrated partnership, 
with a presence in over 100 countries and territories, and a global team of over 50,000 professionals. In 
India, Forvis Mazars is a key player, with a strong national presence and a growing team of over 1,300 
professionals. 
Roseate Hotels & Resorts: Roseate Hotels & Resorts is a brand of Bird Hospitality, Bird Group, India. 
Roseate Hotels and Resorts is a collection of luxury hotels consisting of seven niche hotels across India 
and the United Kingdom with more under development. The name 'Roseate' comes from a bird with pink 
hued plumage. Avant-garde, imaginative and contemporary in design, each Roseate hotel has a story to 
tell. Key focus is laid on immaculate hospitality and service, strategic location, bespoke design and 
architecture, aesthetics, exemplary dining and meticulous attention to detail. In India the existing portfolio 
includes The Roseate New Delhi, Roseate House New Delhi and The Roseate Ganges Rishikesh.
Sarvatra Group: Sarvatra Infracon Pvt. Ltd., an Ahmedabad-based company, was incorporated with a 
mission of adding value to real estate. Sarvatra Infracon Pvt Ltd has launched Akashganga Heritage 
Resorts and Spa under the ﬂagship of ITC Welcom  Heritage and is a part of their Heritage Hills property 
which has villas established in the lap of heritage nature in the outskirts of Rajasthan & Gujarat at 
Ratanpur,  98kms from Udaipur.  
Industry Partners
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
SOTC: Shri Om Transport Express (SOTC), Gurugram – a complete Logistics Solutions company dealing 
with high-speed long-distance trucking enabled through technology. The operations were started in 2003 
to deliver quality transportation services to businesses looking for excellence and innovation. They have 
strong health and safety standards and ﬂeet maintenance protocols devised to deliver sensitive cargo for 
sectors such as Automobiles, Pharma, Retail, and E-commerce. 
Spencer's Retail: Spencer's Retail, owned by RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group is an Indian chain of retail stores 
headquartered in Kolkata, West Bengal. It has a presence in over 35 cities and its outlets oﬀer multiple 
formats for retailing food, apparel, fashion, electronics, lifestyle products, music, and books.
Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd: Techview Research & Processing Pvt Ltd is one of the Digital 
Textile Printing Cluster set up at Faridabad with major apparel manufacturers as its members. 
The Jammu & Kashmir Bank: Jammu and Kashmir Bank (J&K Bank) is a Scheduled Commercial Bank 
and one of the oldest private sector banks in India, incorporated in 1938. The bank functions as a leading 
bank in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and is designated by the Reserve Bank of 
India as its exclusive agent for carrying out banking business for the Government of Jammu & Kashmir and 
Ladakh. J&K Bank caters to the banking requirements of various customer segments which include 
Business enterprises, employees of government, semi-government and autonomous bodies, farmers, 
artisans, public sector organizations, and corporate clients. The bank also oﬀers a wide range of retail 
credit products, including home, personal loans, education loans, agriculture, trade credit, and consumer 
lending, and a number of unique ﬁnancial products tailored to the needs of various customer segments.
56

--- PAGE 73 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AYUSH Department Haryana: AYUSH Department Haryana is providing Medical Relief, Medical 
Education and Health Awareness through AYUSH to the masses particularly in the rural areas of Haryana 
State. For this purpose, 4 Ayurvedic Hospitals, 1 Unani Hospital, 6 Ayurvedic Prathmic Swasthya 
Kendra's, 475 Ayurvedic Dispensaries, 18 Unani Dispensaries, 20 Homoeopathic Dispensaries and 1 
Institute of Indian Systems of Medicine and Research (IISM&R), Panchkula are functioning. Besides this, 
33 AYUSH dispensaries (29 Ayurvedic, 2 Unani & 2 Homeopathic) including 3 Specialty Clinics of AYUSH 
(Gurgaon, Hisar, Ambala) & 1 Specialized Therapy Centre (Jind) have been relocated and upgraded as 
AYUSH Wing in 2009-10, 21 AYUSH Wings at District Hospitals & 98 AYUSH IPD (Polyclinic) at CHCs, 
109 AYUSH OPD at PHCs, are providing medical relief to the masses and also participation in National 
Health Programme in the Haryana State. Most of the AYUSH institutions are functioning in the rural and 
remote areas.
AYUSH Department Mission/Vision: 
•
To provide cost eﬀective and equitable AYUSH health care throughout the country by improving access 
to the services. 
•
To revitalize and strengthen the AYUSH systems making them as prominent medical streams in 
addressing the health care of the society. 
•
To improve educational institutions capable of imparting quality AYUSH education.
To promote the adoption of Quality standards of AYUSH drugs and making available the sustained 
supply of AYUSH raw-materials.
Concentrix Daksh: Concentrix Daksh , a wholly-owned subsidiary of SYNNEX Corporation (NYSE: 
SNX), is a technology enabled global business services company specializing in customer engagement 
and improvement of business performance for some of the world's best brands. They create better 
business outcomes and diﬀerentiate their clients in ten industry verticals: automotive; banking and 
ﬁnancial services; insurance; healthcare; technology; consumer electronics; media and communications; 
retail and e- commerce; travel and transportation; and energy and public-sector.
Citizens Speciality Hospital: Citizens Speciality Hospital (CSH) provides specialty healthcare based on 
world-class standards of care and evidence-based protocols across a broad range of medical specialties 
for inpatients and outpatients. CSH coordinate care in a way that emphasizes on the needs of the patients 
ﬁrst. CSH value quality and invest in technology proven for clinical eﬀectiveness. They place a high 
emphasis on exceeding rigorous quality benchmarks related to safety and performance.
Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA): Gurugram is governed by the Municipal 
Corporation of Gurugram which follows a Mayor-Council system. GMDA (Gurugram Metropolitan 
Development Authority) was formed in 2017. GMDA looks after various departments such as Urban 
Planning, GeoSpatial, Finance, Admin, etc. It has not only improved a lot of the city's infrastructure but also 
the quality of life for local residents.
Healthians: Healthians is India's leading health test at home service oﬀering a wide range of health tests 
across 250+ cities of India, and counting. It has a network of state-of-the-art fully automated laboratories 
and a large team of highly skilled phlebotomists who specialize in sample collection from homes. 
Technological innovation has been the foundation of the brand in the industry. To ensure accuracy of 
reports, Healthians has deployed an advanced tech-enabled quality control process. 
Industry Partners
73

--- PAGE 74 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QRG Super Speciality Hospital: QRG Super Speciality Hospital isn't just another hospital but an 
amalgamation of the best services the healthcare segment can oﬀer. Their excellent medical infrastructure 
houses a Critical Care Medicine unit for patients with life threatening diseases. Not just that, their highly 
qualiﬁed team of medical professionals and advanced software system make them an ideal hospital for 
patients from all walks of life.
Neuberg Diagnostics: Neuberg Diagnostics, headquartered in Chennai, is one of India's leading 
diagnostic service providers, with its presence in India, UAE, South Africa and USA. The laboratories are 
accredited by CAP & NABL. The group has created accessibility to state of the art diagnostic technologies 
and possesses some of the ﬁnest clinical Pathologists, Biochemists, Geneticists and several other 
certiﬁed clinical lab professionals, with the capability to perform over 6000 varieties of pathological 
investigations. 
Industry Partners
74

