 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHRI VISHWAKARMA SKILL UNIVERSITY 
 
POLICY FOR PROMOTION OF RESEARCH 
(Under Section 7(a,r&x) of Svsu Act 2016) 

1 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
POLICY FOR PROMOTION OF RESEARCH 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) is a State university established under Act 25 of 2016. 
The objective to establish the Skill University is to facilitate and promote skill, entrepreneurship 
development, skill based education and research in the emerging areas of manufacturing, 
information technology, textile, design, logistics and transportation, automation, agriculture, 
maintenance, etc. and to raise skill level in various fields related to these areas. This policy aims 
to promote research ecosystem and conducive environment for conducting quality research by 
the faculty members and students of the University. The policy applies to all the faculty members, 
research scholars and students of SVSU University, Palwal who are engaged in any form of 
research & innovation activity. All research activities will be undertaken in accordance with the 
university’s regulatory and ethical considerations. 
Objectives 
1. To strengthen the institutional capacity for research and encourage researchers for 
industry connect, collaborations and research networking 
2. To organize research promotion events like summits, conferences, seminars, workshops, 
expert lectures and panel discussion through talks with eminent personalities from 
reputed institutions and industries etc. 
3. To identify the problems faced by the industry and find effective solutions for their 
improvisation in terms of productivity, improvising product design, development of new 
products, product quality, cost reduction, employee engagement through research 
projects and consultancy work, etc. 
4. To motivate faculty members, research scholars, staff and students to apply for patent 
and also encourage to present research papers in national and international conferences/ 
workshops. 
5. To encourage faculty members to make efforts in securing extramural research grants for 
research funding 
6. To encourage faculty members for developing the research ecosystem by providing Seed 
Money Grant for conceptualizing the research ideas 
7. To recognise and incentivise the best performers in research, consultancy and 
qualification development. 
8. To take Initiatives for signing MoU's with reputed national/international institutions and 
industries for collaborative consultancy and research projects, etc. 
9. To promote Intellectual Property Right (IPR) culture and protect IPRs arising out of the 
research conducted by the University fraternity 
Custodian of the Policy 
The implementation and updating of Research Policy shall be carried out by Research and 
Development cell. The University shall have a Research Advisory Board to advise and supervise 
research related matters of the university. The research output shall be assessed by internal and 
external audit committees. The external audit committee shall have external subject expert(s). 
 
A. Undertaking Research 
Faculty members of the University are expected to undertake quality research leading to 
publications 
in 
Journals 
of 
international 
repute 
and 
presentations 
in 
leading 
International/National conferences. Established open' scientometric indices such as publications 
in Journals indexed in Web of Science (SCI, SCIE, SSCI, AHCI, ESCI), UGC Care and Scopus 
databases, impact factor (by Clarivate™) of the Journal, citations of the publication, h-index, i- 

2 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
index of the faculty shall be used to assess the quality of research in a uniform and transparent 
manner. It is the responsibility of the individual faculty member to maintain an updated account 
of research activities in an appropriate manner. 
B. Recruitment and Promotion 
Participation in research activity is mandatory for all faculty members and research output will 
be an important criterion for faculty recruitment and promotion along with other academic 
indicators. Norms for measuring the required quantum of research output will be as per UGC 
rules and/or as prescribed by the University from time to time. The quality of research output 
may be assessed on the transparent and established scientometric indices or as revised by the 
University from time to time 
C. Research Administration 
 
A Research & Development Cell (RDC) to function under the Vice-Chancellor with a 
Research Advisory Council and five committees as mandated by UGC guidelines dated 
March 4, 2022 and June 8, 2022 (notified vide ACM-l/App.22 dated 27-07-2022). RDC is 
expected to play a lead role in catalysing research culture mandated in NEP 2020 while 
creating an enabling environment for attainment of targets of Atmanirbhar Bharat. 
Vibrant Research Ecosystem also aims to provide a meaningful trust for sustainable 
research and innovation besides promoting collaboration between University, Industries 
and Government.
 
Research activity of each Faculty/Department/Institute is coordinated by the respective 
Dean/Chairperson/Director/Principal with designated authority/responsibility for 
Pls/Co-Pls.
D. Resources for Research Support 
A separate Budget Head for research be created for the purpose of earmarking generation and 
allocation of resources for research with a potential to catalyse innovative and entrepreneurial 
success stories. 
i) Intramural Funds- Innovation Fund, Research Fund/Seed Money 
To strengthen research & innovation and promote entrepreneurial culture a corpus may be 
created for faculty members. Fund from the corpus amount will be sanctioned to the faculty 
members with at least one year of service with SVSU. 
a) Innovation Fund: 
An innovation fund of Rs. 500000 in each skill faculty is recommended to be created, 
which may be utilised by faculty/instructor. The amount will be provided with a block of 
2 years or till it is utilized whichever is earlier. It is recommended that each skill faculty 
will get the budget approved for same under their respective budget head. The 
distribution, monitoring and accounts of the innovation fund will be taken care by the 
Dean of respective Skill Faculty of the University. The Fund may be utilised for: 
 
Prototype development and collaborative Projects/Research-Prototype development 
for Industry or collaborative projects/research or social immersion projects with 
students/different 
faculties/staff 
members 
leading 
to 
collaborative 
publications/prototype development/solution to industry based problems or society 
to the selected projects by the competent authority. 
 
To identify the problems faced by the industry and find effective solutions for their 
improvisation in terms of productivity, improvising product design, development of 
new products, product quality, cost reduction, employee engagement through 
research projects, and consultancy work, etc 

3 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
 
Intellectual property rights grant/ publication/social immersion projects. 
Skill Faculties may combine their funds if required. In addition, the matching grant may 
also be looked for from the industry partner by respective researchers. 
b) Research Fund/Seed Money: 
To promote the overall research ecosystem and fund research problems of impacting 
nature, it is proposed to grant funds in the form of seed money to university teachers, 
researchers and skill instructors under the University Funded Research Program (UFRG). 
A flexi- Research Fund will be created which may be provided to Skill Faculties along with 
a flexi - provision that in case a Skill Faculty requires more money than the allotted budget 
then it may be provided from the other Skill Faculties unutilised fund on the approval by 
competent authority. The university proposes to incur a total expenditure of Rs. 50 Lakhs 
for the University Funded Research Program (UFRG) to be disbursed in the form of a 
limited number of research grants/seed grants to promote the research and innovation 
culture. There will be a provision of 10 percent increase in amount of UFRG after every 
three year depending upon the number of projects completed/ No. of publications/No. of 
prototype developed/ No. of patents followed by the number of projects submitted by 
Skill faculty to outside funding agency. 
The seed money granted will be of maximum three lakh rupees with a block of 3 
years or till it is utilized whichever is earlier. Such a fund may be utilised on 
a) Conducting research 
b) Conference participation with publication in quality indexed conference 
proceedings (Scopus/SCI/SCIE/SSCI/WoS/IEEE/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC care 
List) 
c) Intellectual Property Rights grant/ publication 
d) Prototype development and collaborative projects -Prototype development for 
Industry solution to industry based problems. 
e)  Multidisciplinary Projects by faculty members’/skill instructors of different 
faculties solving Industry/societal problems 
 
All regular faculty members/Instructors of the University are eligible to apply for 
University Research Grant. The regular faculty/Instructors member should have at least 
three years’ service remaining before the date of superannuation. Faculty 
member/Instructor have an ongoing UFRG project can not apply; however, they can 
submit a new proposal one year after the completion of UFRG project. 
 
The proposals for fund shall be submitted in prescribed Performa which shall be 
evaluated by an expert committee for recommendations for funding. Faculty/Instructors 
availing fund are required to publish their research work in at least one research paper 
in reputed international/national journals which are SCI/SCIE/SSCI/Scopus/AHCI/UGC 
Care list/NASS/Web of Science indexed for the Faculties of Science, Life Sciences, and 
Engineering & Technology; and SCI/SCIE / SSCI / AHCI / NASS/ Web of Science / UGC 
Care list journals for all other Faculties or patent award/publication or start-up 
commercialisation. The Faculty member shall submit final project report and utilisation 
certificate along with published research papers or the status of research papers on the 
completion of tenure of Seed Money Grant/Minor Research Project. 
 
Application Process 
 Interested faculty member shall submit the proposal in the prescribed format along 
with Bio-Data to the Research and Innovation (R&I) Cell. 

4 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
 Proposals submitted must be original in ideation and content. Plagiarism in any form 
will not be acceptable as per University Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy and 
liable to be rejected if found plagiarized. 
 
Evaluation & Selection Criteria 
 The Project Monitoring Committee (PMC) will be constituted for selection of fresh 
proposals and review of ongoing project 
 The PMC shall comprise of following members: 
 Dean (Research and Innovation), Chairman 
 All Deans of the skill faculties, Member 
 Two Professor’s (one may be external) nominated by the Vice Chancellor 
 Associate Dean/In charge (Research Cell), Member Secretary 
 The PMC will meet twice a year (1st week of March and 1st week of Sept) to review 
ongoing projects and consider new proposals. The committee will shortlist the 
candidates to be called for presentation and finalize the proposals to be recommended 
for the UFRG for approval of Vice- Chancellor. 
 
 
ii) Extramural funds 
The faculty members are expected to submit Research Projects to appropriate funding agencies 
for extramural research grants, sponsored projects and fellowship programmes. They are' also 
expected to generate consultancy funds from the State / National / International funding bodies. 
Government or private (corporate and NGOs / trusts / individuals). Necessary documents to 
support the research proposals are made available through the accounts branch, Research and 
consultancy office and Registrar office (as the case maybe). The University shall monitor the 
progress of Major Research Projects and all other extramural funding as per guidelines of the 
specific funding agency and help in submitting the utilisation certificate in time as per the 
requirement of the funding agency in order to facilitate timely release of subsequent yearly 
grants. 
E. Publications 
Publication of research papers and filing of patents, designs, trademarks, copyright etc. is 
considered critical for effective research visibility of the University besides the main task of 
generation and dissemination of new knowledge. The University encourages these activities by 
the faculty with this broad targeted aim and the faculty/instructors/staff must publish 
continuously preferably in the SCI/SCIE/SSCI/NASS/AHCl/Scopus indexed journals or at least in 
the UGC approved journals. 
F. IPR & Technology Transfer 
IPR and technology transfer cases will be processed as per IPR policy of the university. 
G. Research Incentive Schemes 
The University need to motivate faculty/instructors/staff members to publish regularly, to 
innovate and to generate patentable work. Also to keep pace with the world and to improve the 
rankings, a progressive improvement in the quality of publications and scale of innovation is 
imperative. Providing Awards and Incentives is considered as a positive stimulation to improve 
research performance and accelerate research efforts. Following Awards and Incentives are 
therefore designed with this precise purpose. 
a) Research Awards 

5 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
Five Best Researcher Awards per Faculty of rupees 5100/- each award shall be presented 
annually to the regular faculty/instructors of SVSU based on the excellence achieved in a 
particular category. 
BEST RESEARCHER AWARDS 
1 Best Researcher: Publications 
 
Maximum number of published papers in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ 
Scopus Indexed Journals in a calendar year. A granted patent would be considered 
equivalent to a publication. 
 
In Case of tie the researcher with total higher impact factor of the publications will be 
adjudged as the winner 
 
If the tie still persists, the researcher with the highest impact factor of a single publication 
will be adjudged as the winner 
 
If the tie still persists, the researcher having higher number of collaborative publications 
with international and National Universities/institutes other than SVS University, Palwal 
will be adjudged as the winner. 
 
It will be the responsibility of the applicant to submit hard copy of the documents, if asked 
for, substantiating the indexing of Journals in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC 
Care/ Scopus Indexed as well as the impact factors 
2. Best Researcher: Impact Factor 
 
Highest 
cumulative 
impact 
factor 
of 
the 
papers 
published 
in 
SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed journals in a calendar 
year. 
 
In Case of tie the researcher with total higher impact factor of an individual publications 
from the same calendar year will be adjudged as the winner 
 
If the tie still, persists, the researcher having higher number of collaborative publications 
with International and National Universities/institutes other than SVSU, will be adjudged 
as the winner. 
 
It will be responsibility of the applicant to submit documents substantiating the indexing 
of journals in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus Indexed as well as the 
impact factors. 
 
As mentioned under definitions, journal impact factor as calculated by Clarivate Analytics 
will only be considered. 
3. Best Researcher; h-index/i-index 
 
In the absence of a perpetual subscription to Scopus or Web of Science, h-index/i-index 
provided by the open platform, Google Scholar would be considered. 
 
The teachers applying for the award under this category must have their Google Scholar 
profiles in public domain and the link to their profiles need to be provided. 
 
The h-index of the applicant till the last date of submission of applications will be 
considered as submitted by the applicant. 
 
In case of a tie, the researcher with higher number of papers with citations equal to or 
more than the SVSU h-index/i-index for the year under consideration will be adjudged as 
the winner. The h-index/i-index of the University will be provided by the Director-IQAC 
for this purpose. 
 
It will be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the inclusion of research 
publications belonging only to the applicant in the Google Scholar profile. Inclusion of any 
publications not organically belonging to the applicant would lead to disqualification for 
being considered for the award. 

6 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
4. Best Researcher: Projects 
 
Highest value of research project(s) awarded by an external funding agency in a calendar 
year. At least one project with a sanctioned value above Rs. 3.0 lakh only would be 
considered for the Award, in case of multiple projects in a calendar year, the condition of 
minimum sanctioned value of Rs. 3.0 lakh will not apply to additional projects. 
 
In case of a tie, cumulative total amount of the research projects in entire career of the 
teacher funded by external agencies (other than SVSU) would be taken into account. 
 
In case of a research project having Principal Investigator as well as Co-Principal 
investigator(s), both the Investigator(s) of the project would be considered for this award 
and the money will be distributed equally. If there are more than two Invigilators, the 
award of 50% will be given to the principal invigilator and the 50% award money will be 
distributed equally to other invigilators. 
5. Best Researcher: Collaboration. 
Maximum number of research collaborations as evidenced by joint publications in 
SCI/SCIE/SSCI/AHCI/NASS/ABDC/UGC Care/ Scopus indexed journals or joint research projects. 
Weightage criteria for collaborations with other Universities/Institutes would be as under: 
Publications
Points
Joint with an International University/Institute
10
Joint with an industry or Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 
'A++', or, IITs, IIMs etc 
7 
Joint with an Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 'A', or National 
Labs/Institutes such as CSIR Labs, NITs etc. 
5 
Joint with an Indian University with NAAC Grade below 'A' or no Grade
2
Joint with a Institute/college with NAAC Grade or no grade
1
Projects
Points
Joint with an International University/institute
10
Joint with industry
7
Joint with an Indian University/Institute with NAAC Grade 'A' or higher, or 
National Labs/Institutes such as CSIR Labs, IITs, NITs, IIMs etc. 
5
Joint with an Indian University with NAAC Grade below 'A' or no Grade
2
Joint with a Institute/college with NAAC Grade or no grade
1
• Each collaborating University/Institute/College can be counted for weighted only once 
irrespective of the number of joint publications/projects. 
• In case of a tie, the researcher with highest impact factor of a single publication will be adjudged 
as the winner 
b) Lifetime Achievement Award 
 
Applications for this Award can be submitted up to April 30 of a calendar year by a teacher 
who is going to retire in between October 01 of the same calendar year and September 30 
of the next calendar year. 
 
Chairperson/Director of the Department/Institute or Dean of the Skill Faculty or Dean 
Academic Affairs can also nominate a teacher who is retiring as per the timeframe 
mentioned above. Emeritus Professors of SVSU may also be considered for this Award by 
invitation only for the first time after the notification for this award. 
 
The applicant/nominator must submit a detailed CV-depicting the Journey of the teacher 
from the beginning of his/her career at SVSU mentioning his/her contributions towards 
the growth of SVSU as well as his/her professional achievements. 
c) Membership Fee to join professional Societies/Bodies 

7 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
 
The provision of Membership Fee to join professional Societies/Bodies to the faculty 
members’/skill instructors of the university should be as per SVSU FDP policy. 
 
H. Consultancy to the Government, Industry and other Organizations 
Faculty/Instructors/Staff members are encouraged to gradually move towards monetizing the 
research/academic/technical capabilities by way of undertaking consultancy or providing 
technical services to Industry and other organizations utilizing the facilities available in the 
University. A separate policy for carrying consultancy work is included in University Consultancy 
Policy  2022.  It  is  recommended  that  of  reward  Rs.  5100  will  be  given  to  each 
faculty/instructor/staff member for consultancy work done. It is recommended to make a 
budgetary provision of Rs. 1.0 Lakh/year in the R&D budget head for this reward. 
 
Highest value of consultancy awarded by an external funding agency in a calendar year. 
At least one project with a sanctioned value above Rs. 3.0 lakh only would be considered 
for the Award, in case of multiple projects in a calendar year, the condition of minimum 
sanctioned value of Rs. 3.0 lakh will not apply to additional projects.
 
In case of a tie, cumulative total amount of the consultancy in entire career of the teacher 
funded by external agencies (other than SVSU) would be taken into account.
 
In case of a consultancy having Principal Investigator as well as Co-Principal 
investigator(s), both the Investigator(s) of the consultancy would be considered for this 
award and the money will be distributed equally. If there are more than two Invigilators, 
the award of 50% will be given to the principal invigilator and the 50% award money will 
be distributed equally to other invigilators.
I. Qualification Development 
Qualifications being important component in skill education, faculty/instructor/staff members 
are encouraged to develop the qualifications as per National Council for Vocational Education and 
Training guidelines. It is expected that the staff members of the university must develop the 
qualification’s those are focused for future job roles. The University will incentivise such faculty 
members’/Instructors/Staff members for development such future oriented job role 
qualifications in emerging areas every year (areas/sectors in which fewer or no qualifications are 
available). It is recommended to keep a budgetary provision of Rs. 1,00,000 in the budget head 
of each skill faculty every year. The accounts, and expenditure of the qualification development 
fund will be taken care by the Dean of respective Skill Faculty/Department of the University. 
 
Award money of maximum Rs 20000/- will be given for each qualification developed in 
emerging areas/sectors for futuristic job roles, the qualifications considered should not 
be improvement/modification of existing qualification for existing job roles. The award 
shall be equally distributed among the faculty members, skill instructors involved in 
development of the qualification.
 
 In case of more than five such qualifications developed in futuristic skills in a Skill 
Faculty in a year, the award money can be distributed equally for all such qualifications 
by respective Dean of Skill Faculty keeping the total budgetary amount as Rs 1,00,000/-.
J. Supporting Policies, Guidelines and Regulations 
It is expected that each member involved in research adheres to the highest ethical standards of 
conduct including data integrity and ethical guidelines in place from time to time. The University 
shall have supporting policy frameworks for promotion of research in conjunction with this 
policy such as Ph.D. Ordinance, policy on research ethics, guidelines for research on human 
subjects (as adopted from ICMR), guidelines for biosafety committee (as adopted from DBT) and 

8 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
guidelines for animal ethics committee (as adopted from DST) and all applicable regulations and 
guidelines. 
GUIDELINES FOR CARRYING OUT SPONSORED RESEARCH PROJECTS 
1. Introduction 
Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal considers the need to facilitate the research and 
development activities systematically to lay strong foundation and register growth in research by 
generation of resources, research collaborations and establishing links with industry as well as 
with social organizations. The University will handle the project management aspects related to 
accounts, purchases, recruitment, audits, liaisons with sponsors, and prepare the status reports, 
by the following rules and regulations. 
2. Scope 
The rules and regulations are applicable to all activities stated therein. 
1. The proposals submitted by a Department/ Center/ Employee of the University or by the 
University as such. 
2. Sponsored Research Projects involving external funding sources. 
3. International Research Collaborations involving international funding sources or 
international collaborators 
4. Industry/ Organization Sponsored Projects, involving funding from industry 
 
3. Definitions 
1. Sponsored Research Project means a time and cost bound project sponsored by 
government, public, private, national/international agencies or autonomous bodies. 
2. Sponsor means the organization that offers a sponsored Project to the Shri Vishwakarma 
Skill University, Palwal and provides necessary financial support for successful 
completion of the project in time. 
3. Principal Investigator (PI) means a member of the faculty/instructor/staff who submits 
the project proposal and negotiates with the sponsor and is instrumental in getting the 
project funding. 
4. Co-Investigator 
or 
Co-Principal 
Investigator 
means 
a 
working/retired 
faculty/instructor/staff member co- opted by the PI to work jointly with him/her and 
approved by the funding agency. In the absence of PI (PI goes abroad for long time, PI gets 
retired, PI leaves the university) Co-PI, working in the university, will become in-charge 
of project as per norms of funding agency. In case Co-PI has also retired then another 
faculty member of the university from the same department will act as PI subject to 
recommendation of DEAN RESEARCH and approval of competent authority and funding 
agency. 
5. The project staff includes research technical and office personnel. 
6. Dean Research means Dean Research and Innovation of SVSU. 
ͶǤSubmission of the Project Proposals 
The PI will complete the project initiation form as per Annexure for submission of ‘Research 
Project’ to the various funding agencies and submit to Dean Research through the Dean of the 
concerned Skill Faculty and for non-teaching faculty the Head of the department shall ensure that 
it would be possible for the department to accommodate the work of the research project. 
In case, the project is to be sponsored by a non-government agency, a statement on the terms and 
conditions of the project including the rights of patents and royalties must be spelled out clearly 
through a MoU/Agreement (to be vetted by Legal officer of the university) to be signed by the 

9 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
Registrar, Dean Research of the university and PI and the competent authority of the funding 
agency. 
 
5. Sanction of the Project 
The sanction letter and details of the amount sanctioned under different Budget heads, duration 
of the project and other terms and conditions shall be communicated to the Account Branch for 
entering the grant in the grant register by the PI. 
The date of the start of the Project will be taken as the date when the first instalment of the Grant 
is received. In case of any conflict, the guidelines of the funding agency shall supersede. 
6. Operation of the projects 
6.1 Procedure for purchase of equipment, consumables, up gradation, repairs, annual 
maintenance contracts (AMC), renovation and TA/DA expenses as per the University 
norms. 
6.2 All purchases shall be executed by a Committee called the ‘Project Purchase Committee 
(PPC)’ for each project consisting of the Dean Research nominee, chairperson of the 
department, PI (convener), Co-PI (if any) and one/two members of the Teaching 
Faculty/Staff. 
6.3 An imprest amount equivalent to 5% of the total contingency grant with a ceiling of Rs. 
10,000/- will be provided to the PI for smooth running of the Project. The Finance Policy 
of University will be followed for purchase of any items in the project. 
6.4 The University TA/DA rules/rules will normally be applicable to all sponsored research 
projects for field work and visits in Haryana or outside Haryana (in India or abroad). 
However, keeping in view the time-bound nature of the projects, the PI/Co-PI/research 
staff will be allowed to travel by taxi/own car/ by air irrespective of their entitlement on 
the approval of Vice Chancellor. 
6.5 Imprest amount for the field work: For the payment required for field work connected 
with the sponsored research increase in imprest amount will be allowed by the DEAN 
RESEARCH upto Rs. 10000/- and beyond that by the Vice Chancellor. 
6.6 The Secretarial assistance: To look after the processing of bills, preparation of accounts 
reports, utilization certificate and other project related secretarial work a person may be 
hired on the Govt. Approved rates by PI in consent with Dean Research. 
6.7 The appointment of clearing agent: The clearing of the imported equipment and other 
items at the air-port is a very tedious and time consuming process. In order to save time 
and energy of the PI, the University shall appoint a clearing agent. The charges of the agent 
for each case shall be met out of the corresponding project budget head. Further, the 
University will provide a suitable vehicle if needed to bring the imported items from the 
airport. 
6.8 Annual statement of expenditure and utilization certificate: The PI shall prepare the 
statement of expenditure and utilization certificate of every project by 30th March of the 
relevant year and send the same to the Dean Research /Accounts Branch for confirmation 
or reconciliation for onward transmission to the funding agency, or vice-versa. 
6.9 All expenditures will be as per university Accounting policy. 
7. Management of Overhead Charges 
The funds under this head can be utilized by the PI during the Project period on items of 
expenditure as per prescribed procedures of the University. 
͹ǤͳǤInfrastructure: 
Expenses related to 

10 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
 Laboratory maintenance & renovation 
 Purchase/ repair of furniture, air conditioners, Personal Computers, Laptops and Printers 
7.2 
Repair and up-gradation of scientific equipment and purchase of minor accessories of 
equipment. 
7.3 
Advertisements in the newspapers of vacant positions in the project as well as other 
public notices. 
7.4 
Hiring 
of 
manpower 
including 
secretarial 
assistance 
(typing 
/computer 
operation/accounting /bills etc.) shall be subjected to approval by the Dean Research as 
appropriate at university/State Govt. approved rates. Assistance of student of Ph.D., Masters, 
Bachelors course not getting any financial support can be provided at the rate of Rs. 125, Rs.100, 
Rs.75/- hour with a maximum limit of 30 hours per week after getting approval of the Dean 
Research. 
7.5 
Expenses to meet local, domestic or international travels, hotel expenses, DA registration 
fee for participation of PI, Co-PI and project staff in conference/symposia and for visit to other 
laboratories (in India and abroad) for discussion or for collaborative research work subject to 
prior approval of the PI (upto Rs. 5000/-), Dean Research (upto Rs. 10,000/-) and Vice- 
Chancellor for the expenses above Rs. 10,000/-. Expense to meet filing of Indian patent will be as 
per University/ State Govt. rules. The expense of the membership fee of various 
professionals/academic societies can also be met out of PIs share. 
7.6 
Provision of communication facilities including installation and the periodical bills 
payment of mobile of the PI/ Co-PI, dongle Wi-Fi charges, charges for ISD call made from actual 
telephone or public call office and E-mail charge if any for project work may be paid from this 
head on actual basis. 
7.7 
Annual 
maintenance 
contract 
(AMC) 
fee/charges 
for 
the 
equipments, 
computers/printers, air conditioner etc. The allotment of AMC of the technical instruments upto 
Rs. 10,000/- shall be executed by the PI after the approval of Dean Research. Beyond Rs. 10,000/- 
the AMC will be awarded by the PI after the approval of Vice-Chancellor. 
8. Appointments 
For appointments under the project, the PI will send the draft advertisement to the DEAN 
RESEARCH for approval through establishment branch, who will return it to the PI for 
notification/advertisement after giving approval. Application should be invited after giving wide 
publicity/as per the funding agency rules regarding the vacancies. The terms and conditions of 
the appointments can be decided by a committee duly constituted by the Vice-Chancellor on the 
recommendation of Dean Research, if required. 
9. Maintenance of Stock Registers 
Each project should have separate stock register for consumable and non- consumable items to 
be maintained by PI or his/her office. The non-consumable items/equipment’s shall be 
transferred to the regular stock register of the department/university after completion of the 
project unless otherwise stated by the funding agency. 
10. Interim Progress and Accounts Reports of the Project 
The PI shall prepare the progress report along with the statement of accounts which will be 
submitted to the Accounts Branch through Dean of concerned Skill Faculty and Dean Research. 
These statements will be used by the Accounts Branch for preparing the utilization certificates 
(UC) to be submitted to the funding agency. It will be the responsibility of PI to submit and 
maintain the accounts correctly. 
11. Final Technical and Financial Report of the Project 

11 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
11.1 
The final technical report shall be prepared by the PI in accordance with the requirements 
of the funding agency and submitted to the Dean Research for approval. However, the submission 
of the technical report to the funding agency will be the responsibility of the PI. 
11.2 
The final financial report including UC shall be prepared by the Accounts Branch in 
consultation with PI as per the requirements of the funding agency and submitted to the Registrar 
for approval. The submission of the required financial reports, approved by the Registrar, to the 
concerned agencies will be the responsibility of the PI. 
12. Filing of Patents 
In case of the PI creates/invents a novel product having commercial significance or develops a 
technique which may have industrial application, Dean Research will send recommendation to 
initiate the process for filing a patent through a negotiated settlement involving the PI, the 
funding agency and the University. All costs related to filing as well as maintenance of patent 
(Indian, International or any other patent) will be paid by the University. 
 
 
 
Annexure/ Form – 1 
FORMAT FOR FORWARDING RESEARCH PROJECTS PROPOSALS 
(Enclose two copies of project proposal with this form) 
 
1. Name of the Investigator 
: 
2. Designation 
: 
3. Date of Birth/Retirement 
: 
4. Department/Centre 
: 
5. Name of the Co-Investigator (if any) 
: 
6. Designation 
: 
7. Date of Birth 
: 
8. Department/Centre 
: 
9. Title of the Project 
: 
10. Duration of the Project 
from 
To 
11. Funding Agency 
: 
12. Total Funds requested including 
salaries without overhead charges 
: 

12 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
13. Whether the account of the earlier 
Completed projects finally closed 
: 
14. If not, the reasons for the same 
: 
15. Information to be provided by the Principal Investigator 
i) 
Total number of ongoing Projects: 
ii) 
Total number of Projects completed in the last 10 years: 
iii) 
The following information for each project should be given on separate sheet: 
Title of the project: 
Funding Agency: 
Total Grant of the project: 
Date of Commencement, 
Date of completion. 
I understand that (i) University will not provide any funds for the project work, 
equipment, salaries or contingencies, (ii) Any electrical wiring, water pipes and 
drains, etc. within the laboratory, renovation and air conditioning has to be met out 
of the budget, (iii) Any extra space for the project has to be settled within the 
Department, University may not provide any additional space. 
 
The investigators will follow the norms for the operation of the project framed 
from time to time by the DEAN RESEARCH. 
 
 
Signature of the Investigator: 
Date:
Signature of the Co-Investigator (if any): 
Date: 
 
Dean of Skill Faculty 
 
Signature 
:Seal 
Date: 
Notes: 
 
a) Two copies of the project proposal, one for the signature of the competent 
university authority and one for the records will be sent to the office of DEAN 
RESEARCH. The investigator should get the signed copy collected within 5-7 days 
of submission, required copies with forwarding letters to the funding agency, 
directly or through the office of concerned Dean of Skill Faculty. 
b) Co –Investigator who is not retiring before the date of the completion of the project 
is essential if the investigator is retiring before the date of completion of the 
project. 
c) A copy of the norms for operation of the project will be sent along with the 
acknowledgement of the first instalment of the money to the DEAN RESEARCH. 

13 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
Annexure– II 
Formats For Submission Of Research Proposal for seed money 
(To be filled by applicant) 
1. Project Title 
2. Broad Subject: 
3. Sub Area: 
4. Duration in months: 
5. Project summary (maximum 150 words) 
6. Key words (maximum 6) 
7. Technical details 
8. Introduction 
9. Review of status of Research and Development in the subject 
10. Importance of the proposed project in the context of current status 
11. Methodology 
12. Details about Principal Investigator 
 
Name 
 
Exact designation
 
 
 
Appointment Type 
 
 
 
Department
Qualifications
 
 
 
Experience in years
 
 
 
Students guided 
 
 
 
Publications
 
 
 
Relevant experience
 
Other information
 
Cell number
 
Email
 
Signature
 
 
13. Details about Co-Investigator 
 
Name
 
Exact designation
 
 
 
Appointment Type
 
 
 
Department
 
Qualifications
 
 
 
Experience in years
 
 
 
Students guided
 
 
 
Publications
 
 
 
Relevant experience
 
Other information
 
Cell number
 
Email
 
Signature
 
14. Facilities/equipment available in the area of research proposed in the 
Department 
 
Name of equipment
Make and model
Cost in Rs.
Year purchased
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

14 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
15. Budget Estimates – Non Recurring 
Proposed equipment/s 
Specifications 
No ofunits 
Cost in Rs.
Justification 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total(INR)
 
 
 
 
 
Budget Estimates –Recurring
 
Estimate for Year 1
Estimate for Year 2
AMC/Service charges
Nil (warranty period)
 
Consumables & Contingencies
 
 
By signing this certificate, I/We undertake to 
i
. 
Abide by all the rules / regulations regarding utilization of amount that may be 
granted by the Institute. 
ii. 
Submit timely progress reports about grant utilization. 
iii. 
Submit utilization certificate duly authenticated by CA on/before project period is 
over. 
iv. 
Return full/partial unutilized grant amount to the institute. 
 
Signature of the Applicant
Date 
Signature of Dean of the Skill Faculty
 
Scrutiny report format for the project 
Title of the project: 
Department: 
Name of Principal Investigator: 
Area of Project: 
Date of Scrutiny: 
Reasons of selections/rejection: 
 a viable and researchable problem 
 an acceptable plan of action for undertaking the research 
 done sufficient preparation to establish the rationale for the research 
 a feasible chance of completing the research 
 originality 
 creative thinking 
 Budget and cost: Cost effectiveness/ cost Any other comment: 
Research Proposal Scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
Project: Selected/ Rejected 
Signature of the expert 
Name of the expert 
Designation 
Evaluation comments 
Score 
All relevant aspects of the criterion are successfully addressed. 
5 
The criterion is well addressed, although certain improvements arepossible. 
4 
The criterion is broadly addressed, yet significant weaknesses need to becorrected. 
3 
There are serious weaknesses in relation to the criterion 
2 
The criterion is addressed in an unsatisfactory manner. 
1 

15 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
Report format of the work done on the Research Project. 
(Report to be submitted after every 6 months) 
 
1. 
Project report No. 1st /2nd/3rd/4th: 
2. 
Period of report: from 
to 
3. 
Title of research project: 
4. 
(a) Name of the Principal Investigator 
(b) Deptt. 
5. 
Effective date of starting of the project 
6. 
Grant approved and expenditure incurred during the period of the report: 
a. 
Total amount approved Rs. 
b. 
Total expenditure Rs. 
c. 
Report of the work done: (Please attach a separate sheet) 
i. 
Brief objective of the project 
ii. 
Work done so far and results achieved and publications, if any, resulting from the work 
(Give details of the papers and names of the journals in which it has been published or accepted 
for publication. 
iii. 
Has the progress been according to original plan of work and towards achieving the 
objective? If not, state reasons 
iv. 
Please indicate the difficulties, if any, experienced in implementing the project 
v. 
If project has not been completed, please indicate the approximate time by which it is 
likely to be completed. 
vi. 
If the project has been completed, please enclose a bound copy of the final report of work 
done. 
vii. Any other information which would help in evaluation of work done on the project. 
 
 
 
At the completion of the project, the first report should indicate the output, such as 
(a) 
Manpower trained 
(b) 
Ph. D. awarded 
(c) 
Publication of results 
(d) 
other impact, if any 
 
 
Signature of 
Signature of 
Principal investigator 
Co-investigator 
 
 
 
Dean (Skill Faculty) 
Dean (Research) 

16 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION 
NOTIFICATION 
UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION (PROMOTION OF ACADEMIC INTEGRITY AND 
PREVENTION OF PLAGIARISM IN HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS) 
REGULATIONS, 2018 
 
New Delhi, the 23rd July, 2018 
F. 1-18/2010(CPP-II).— 
Preamble 
Whereas, University Grants Commission (UGC), as per UGC Act, 1956, is mandated to coordinate 
and determine the standards of higher education; 
And whereas, assessment of academic and research work done leading to the partial fulfillment 
for the award of degrees at Masters and Research level, by a student or a faculty or a researcher 
or a staff, in the form of thesis, dissertation and publication of research papers, chapters in books, 
full-fledged books and any other similar work, reflects the extent to which elements of academic 
integrity and originality are observed in various relevant processes adopted by Higher 
Educational Institutions (HEIs); 
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (j) of Section 12 read with clauses (f) and 
(g) of subsection (1) of Section 26 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, the University 
Grants Commission hereby makes the following regulations: - 
1. Short title, application and commencement – 
a. These regulations shall be called the University Grants Commission (Promotion of Academic 
Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2018. 
b. They shall apply to the students, faculty, researchers and staff of all Higher Educational 
Institutions in the country. 
c. These regulations shall come into force from the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions - In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires— 
a. “Academic Integrity” is the intellectual honesty in proposing, performing and reporting any 
activity, which leads to the creation of intellectual property; 
b. “Author” includes a student or a faculty or a researcher or staff of Higher Educational Institution 
(HEI) who claims to be the creator of the work under consideration; 
c. “Commission” means the University Grants Commission as defined in the University Grants 
Commission Act, 1956; 
d. "Common Knowledge" means a well-known fact, quote, figure or information that is known to 
most of the people; 
e. “Degree” means any such degree specified by the University Grants Commission, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, under section 22 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956; 
f. “Departmental Academic Integrity Panel” shall mean the body constituted at the departmental 
level to investigate allegations of plagiarism; 
g. “Faculty” refers to a person who is teaching and/or guiding students enrolled in an HEI in any 
capacity whatsoever i.e. regular, ad-hoc, guest, temporary, visiting etc; 

17 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
h. “Higher Educational Institution (HEI)” means a university recognized under section 2(f) of the 
UGC Act, 1956 or an institution deemed to be university under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 or 
an affiliating college / institution or a constituent unit of a university; 
i. "Information" includes data, message, text, images, sound, voice, codes, computer programs, 
software and databases or microfilm or computer generated microfiche; 
j. “Institutional Academic Integrity Panel” shall mean the body constituted at Institutional level to 
consider recommendations of the departmental academic integrity panel and take appropriate 
decisions in respect of allegations of plagiarism and decide on penalties to be imposed. In 
exceptional cases, it shall investigate allegations of plagiarism at the institutional level; 
k. “Notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette and the expression “notify” 
with its cognate meanings and grammatical variation shall be construed accordingly; 
l. “Plagiarism” means the practice of taking someone else’s work or idea and passing them as one’s 
own. 
m. “Programme” means a programme of study leading to the award of a masters and research 
level degree; 
n. “Researcher” refers to a person conducting academic / scientific research in HEIs; 
o. “Script” includes research paper, thesis, dissertation, chapters in books, full-fledged books and 
any other similar work, submitted for assessment / opinion leading to the award of master and 
research level degrees or publication in print or electronic media by students or faculty or 
researcher or staff of an HEI; however, this shall exclude assignments / term papers / project 
reports / course work / essays and answer scripts etc.; 
p. “Source” means the published primary and secondary material from any source whatsoever 
and includes written information and opinions gained directly from other people, including 
eminent scholars, public figures and practitioners in any form whatsoever as also data and 
information in the electronic form be it audio, video, image or text; Information being given the 
same meaning as defined under Section 2 (1) (v) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and 
reproduced here in Regulation 2 (l); 
q. “Staff” refers to all non-teaching staff working in HEIs in any capacity whatsoever i.e. regular, 
temporary, contractual, outsourced etc.; 
r. “Student” means a person duly admitted and pursuing a programme of study including a 
research programme in any mode of study (full time or part-time or distance mode); 
s. “University” means a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a 
Provincial Act or a State Act, and includes an institution deemed to be university under section 3 
of the UGC Act, 1956; 
t. “Year” means the academic session in which a proven offence has been committed. Words and 
expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the University Grants 
Commission Act, 1956 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in UGC Act, 1956. 
3. Objectives 
3.1 To create awareness about responsible conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of 
academic integrity and prevention of misconduct including plagiarism in academic writing among 
student, faculty, researcher and staff. 

18 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
3.2 To establish institutional mechanism through education and training to facilitate responsible 
conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of academic integrity and deterrence from 
plagiarism. 
3.3. To develop systems to detect plagiarism and to set up mechanisms to prevent plagiarism and 
punish a student, faculty, researcher or staff of HEI committing the act of plagiarism. 
4. Duties of HEI: 
Every HEI should establish the mechanism as prescribed in these regulations, to enhance 
awareness about responsible conduct of research and academic activities, to promote academic 
integrity and to prevent plagiarism. 
5. Awareness Programs and Trainings: 
(a) HEI shall instruct students, faculty, researcher and staff about proper attribution, seeking 
permission of the author wherever necessary, acknowledgement of source compatible with the 
needs and specificities of disciplines and in accordance with rules, international conventions and 
regulations governing the source. 
(b) HEI shall conduct sensitization seminars/ awareness programs every semester on 
responsible conduct of research, thesis, dissertation, promotion of academic integrity and ethics 
in education for students, faculty, researcher and staff. 
(c) HEI shall: 
i. Include the cardinal principles of academic integrity in the curricular of Undergraduate 
(UG)/Postgraduate (PG)/Master’s degree etc. as a compulsory course work/module. 
ii. Include elements of responsible conduct of research and publication ethics as a compulsory 
course work/module for Masters and Research Scholars. 
iii. Include elements of responsible conduct of research and publication ethics in Orientation and 
Refresher Courses organized for faculty and staff members of the HEI. 
iv. Train student, faculty, researcher and staff for using plagiarism detection tools and reference 
management tools. 
v. Establish facility equipped with modern technologies for detection of plagiarism. 
vi. Encourage student, faculty, researcher and staff to register on international researcher's 
Registry systems. 
6. Curbing Plagiarism 
a) HEI shall declare and implement the technology based mechanism using appropriate software 
so as to ensure that documents such as thesis, dissertation, publications or any other such 
documents are free of plagiarism at the time of their submission. 
b) The mechanism as defined at (a) above shall be made accessible to all engaged in research 
work including student, faculty, researcher and staff etc. 
c) Every student submitting a thesis, dissertation, or any other such documents to the HEI shall 
submit an undertaking indicating that the document has been prepared by him or her and that 
the document is his/her original work and free of any plagiarism. 

19 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
d) The undertaking shall include the fact that the document has been duly checked through a 
Plagiarism detection tool approved by the HEI. 
e) HEI shall develop a policy on plagiarism and get it approved by its relevant statutory 
bodies/authorities. The approved policy shall be placed on the homepage of the HEI website. 
f) Each supervisor shall submit a certificate indicating that the work done by the researcher under 
him /her is plagiarism free. 
g) HEI shall submit to INFLIBNET soft copies of all Masters, Research program’s dissertations and 
thesis within a month after the award of degrees for hosting in the digital repository under the 
“ShodhGanga e-repository”. 
h) HEI shall create Institutional Repository on institute website which shall include dissertation 
/ thesis /paper / publication and other in-house publications. 
7. Similarity checks for exclusion from Plagiarism. 
The similarity checks for plagiarism shall exclude the following: 
i. All quoted work reproduced with all necessary permission and/or attribution. 
ii. All references, bibliography, table of content, preface and acknowledgements. 
iii. All generic terms, laws, standard symbols and standards equations. 
Note: 
The research work carried out by the student, faculty, researcher and staff shall be based on 
original ideas, which shall include abstract, summary, hypothesis, observations, results, 
conclusions and recommendations only and shall not have any similarities. It shall exclude a 
common knowledge or coincidental terms, up to fourteen (14) consecutive words. 
 
8. Levels of Plagiarism 
Plagiarism would be quantified into following levels in ascending order of severity for the 
purpose of its definition: 
i. Level 0: Similarities upto 10% - Minor similarities, no penalty 
ii. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% 
iii. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% 
iv. Level 3: Similarities above 60% 
 
9. Detection/Reporting/Handling of Plagiarism 
If any member of the academic community suspects with appropriate proof that a case of 
plagiarism has happened in any document, he or she shall report it to the Departmental Academic 
Integrity Panel (DAIP). Upon receipt of such a complaint or allegation the DAIP shall investigate 
the matter and submit its recommendations to the Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) 
of the HEI. The authorities of HEI can also take suomotu notice of an act of plagiarism and initiate 
proceedings under these regulations. Similarly, proceedings can also be initiated by the HEI on 
the basis of findings of an examiner. All such cases will be investigated by the IAIP. 
10. Departmental Academic Integrity Panel (DAIP) 
i. All Departments in HEI shall notify a DAIP whose composition shall be as given below: 
a. Chairman - Head of the Department 
b. Member - senior academician from outside the department, to be nominated by the head of 
HEI. 

20 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
c. Member - A person well versed with anti-plagiarism tools, to be nominated by the Head of the 
Department. 
The tenure of the members in respect of points 'b' and 'c' shall be two years. The quorum for the 
meetings shall be 2 out of 3 members (including Chairman). 
ii. The DAIP shall follow the principles of natural justice while deciding about the allegation of 
plagiarism against the student, faculty, researcher and staff. 
iii. The DAIP shall have the power to assess the level of plagiarism and recommend penalty(ies) 
accordingly. 
iv. The DAIP after investigation shall submit its report with the recommendation on penalties to 
be imposed to the IAIP within a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of complaint / initiation 
of the proceedings. 
11. Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) 
i. HEI shall notify an IAIP whose composition shall be as given below: 
a. Chairman - Pro-VC/Dean/Senior Academician of the HEI. 
b. Member - Senior Academician other than Chairman, to be nominated by the Head of HEI. 
c. Member - One member nominated by the Head of HEI from outside the HEI 
d. Member - A person well versed with anti-plagiarism tools, to be nominated by the Head of the 
HEI. 
 
The Chairman of DAIP and IAIP shall not be the same. The tenure of the Committee members 
including Chairman shall be three years. The quorum for the meetings shall be 3 out of 4 members 
(including Chairman). 
ii. The IAIP shall consider the recommendations of DAIP. 
iii. The IAIP shall also investigate cases of plagiarism as per the provisions mentioned in these 
regulations. 
iv. The IAIP shall follow the principles of natural justice while deciding about the allegation of 
plagiarism against the student, faculty, researcher and staff of HEI. 
v. The IAIP shall have the power to review the recommendations of DAIP including penalties with 
due justification. 
vi. The IAIP shall send the report after investigation and the recommendation on penalties to be 
imposed to the Head of the HEI within a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of 
recommendation of DAIP/ complaint / initiation of the proceedings. 
vii. The IAIP shall provide a copy of the report to the person(s) against whom inquiry report is 
submitted. 
12. Penalties 
Penalties in the cases of plagiarism shall be imposed on students pursuing studies at the level of 
Masters and Research programs and on researcher, faculty & staff of the HEI only after academic 
misconduct on the part of the individual has been established without doubt, when all avenues of 
appeal have been exhausted and individual in question has been provided enough opportunity to 
defend himself or herself in a fair or transparent manner. 
12.1 Penalties in case of plagiarism in submission of thesis and dissertations 
Institutional Academic Integrity Panel (IAIP) shall impose penalty considering the severity of the 
Plagiarism. 

21 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
i. Level 0: Similarities upto 10% - Minor Similarities, no penalty. 
ii. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% - Such student shall be asked to submit a revised script 
within a stipulated time period not exceeding 6 months. 
iii. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% - Such student shall be debarred from submitting a 
revised script for a period of one year. 
iv. Level 3: Similarities above 60% -Such student registration for that programme shall be 
cancelled. 
 
Note 1: Penalty on repeated plagiarism- Such student shall be punished for the plagiarism of one 
level higher than the previous level committed by him/her. In case where plagiarism of highest 
level is committed then the punishment for the same shall be operative. 
Note 2: Penalty in case where the degree/credit has already been obtained - If plagiarism is 
proved on a date later than the date of award of degree or credit as the case may be then his/her 
degree or credit shall be put in abeyance for a period recommended by the IAIP and approved by 
the Head of the Institution. 
12.2 Penalties in case of plagiarism in academic and research publications 
I. Level 0: Similarities up to 10% - Minor similarities, no penalty. 
II. Level 1: Similarities above 10% to 40% 
i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. 
III. Level 2: Similarities above 40% to 60% 
i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. 
ii) Shall be denied a right to one annual increment. 
iii) Shall not be allowed to be a supervisor to any new Master’s, M.Phil., Ph.D. Student/scholar for 
a period of two years. 
iv) Level 3: Similarities above 60% 
i) Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript. 
ii) Shall be denied a right to two successive annual increments. 
iii) Shall not be allowed to be a supervisor to any new Master’s, M.Phil., Ph.D. Student/scholar for 
a period of three years. 
Note 1: Penalty on repeated plagiarism - Shall be asked to withdraw manuscript and shall be 
punished for the plagiarism of one level higher than the lower level committed by him/her. In 
case where plagiarism of highest level is committed then the punishment for the same shall be 
operative. In case level 3 offence is repeated then the disciplinary action including 
suspension/termination as per service rules shall be taken by the HEI. 
Note 2: Penalty in case where the benefit or credit has already been obtained - If plagiarism is 
proved on a date later than the date of benefit or credit obtained as the case may be then his/her 
benefit or credit shall be put in abeyance for a period recommended by IAIP and approved by the 
Head of the Institution. 
Note 3: HEIs shall create a mechanism so as to ensure that each of the paper 
publication/thesis/dissertation by the student, faculty, researcher or staff of the HEI is checked 
for plagiarism at the time of forwarding/submission. 
Note 4: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against the Head of an HEI, a suitable action, in line 
with these regulations, shall be taken by the Controlling Authority of the HEI. 
Note 5: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against the Head of Department/Authorities at the 
institutional level, a suitable action, in line with these regulations, shall be recommended by the 
IAIP and approved by the Competent Authority. 

22 
Approved in 31st Executive Council Meeting Held on 18.01.2024 
 
Note 6: If there is any complaint of plagiarism against any member of DAIP or IAIP, then such 
member shall excuse himself / herself from the meeting(s) where his/her case is being 
discussed/investigated. 
13. Removal of Difficulty 
UGC reserves the right to remove difficulty/difficulties in the course of implementations of these 
Regulations in consultation with the Government of India/ Ministry of Human Resource 
Development. 
